 
1
 
 
 
Our ref: 
 
70359  
Contact officer: 
Rachel Desmond 
Contact phone: 
03 9658 6438 
 
 
28 February 2020 
 
 
Dear Interested Party  
 
Asahi’s proposed acquisition of Carlton & United Breweries – proposed 
divestments 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is currently 
reviewing Asahi’s proposed acquisition of Carlton & United Breweries (CUB) (the 
proposed acquisition). 
Asahi has offered an undertaking to the ACCC pursuant to section 87B of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act) (the proposed undertaking) in order 
to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to the proposed acquisition 
as set out in the ACCC’s Statement of Issues.  
The undertaking requires Asahi to divest: 
 
Strongbow, Bonamy and Little Green cider brands (the Cider Business); and 
 
Stella Artois and Beck’s beer brands (the Beer Business). 
The ACCC seeks comments from market participants and interested parties to inform 
its decision on whether the proposed undertaking is likely to address competition 
concerns arising from the proposed acquisition. Attachment A to this letter outlines 
the background to the ACCC’s preliminary competition concerns and provides an 
overview of the divestment proposal. A list of specific questions that interested 
parties may wish to address when making a submission can be found at 
Attachment B. The proposed undertaking is provided at Attachment C. 
If you wish to make a submission, please provide it before close of business 
Wednesday 18 March 2020.  Submissions may be emailed, preferably in PDF 
format to mergersru@accc.gov.au with the subject line: Submission re: Asahi’s 
proposed s87B undertaking (Attention: Georgia Zele, Rachel Desmond).  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be 
interested. 
Please note the ACCC has not yet formed a concluded view as to whether its 
competition concerns are capable of being addressed by the proposed undertaking 
or any other possible remedy.  The market consultation process should not be taken 
as an indication that the ACCC will accept the proposed undertaking or that any 
remedy will be capable of satisfying its competition concerns.  
The ACCC may require changes to the proposed undertaking depending on the 
nature and extent of any concerns raised during the market consultation process. 


 
2
The ACCC will only accept the proposed undertaking if it is satisfied that the 
proposed undertaking will sufficiently address its competition concerns, and after 
consideration of the monitoring and compliance costs and any risk to competition 
associated with the implementation of the proposed undertaking (or failure to do so). 
If you have any questions in relation to this matter, or would like to arrange a 
teleconference to discuss your response, please contact Georgia Zele on (02) 9230 
9103 or Rachel Desmond on (03) 9658 6438.  
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed undertaking. We will 
not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless 
compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or in relation 
to court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. It is, therefore, very important that any information 
provided to the ACCC that is of a confidential nature is clearly identified as such and 
the basis of any claims of confidentiality are provided. Our Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines and ACCC/AER Information Policy contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
Suzie Copley 
General Manager 
Coordination & Strategy Branch 
Mergers & Adjudication Group  


 
 
ATTACHMENT A 
Background – the ACCC’s review 
The ACCC commenced a review of the proposed acquisition on 23 August 2019.  On 
12 December 2019, the ACCC published a Statement of Issues (SOI) outlining 
preliminary concerns regarding Asahi’s proposed acquisition of CUB. Further 
information about the ACCC’s review can be accessed from the ACCC’s Mergers Register at: 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Overview of divestment proposal  
Asahi has proffered a draft section 87B undertaking to address the ACCC’s 
concerns. Pursuant to that undertaking, Asahi would divest the Strongbow, Bonamy 
and Little Green cider brands and the Stella Artois and Beck’s beer brands. 
Capitalised terms used below are defined in the proposed undertaking. 
Asahi may divest the Beer Business and the Cider Business (which together make 
up the Divestiture Business) to a single purchaser or to separate purchasers who 
must be approved by the ACCC. 
At completion of the proposed acquisition, Anheuser Busch Inbev (ABI) and Asahi 
propose to enter into an agreed-form Brand Licence Agreement in respect of the 
divested brands (BLA). As part of the divestment, the BLA would be novated to the 
Approved Purchaser. 
As applicable to the relevant divestiture brands, it is anticipated that the BLA would 
distinguish between Imported Products (being those brewed by ABI and imported by 
Asahi into Australia) and Brewed Products (being those brewed by or on behalf of 
Asahi locally in Australia). 
 
In relation to both Imported Products and Brewed Products, the Approved 
Purchaser would be granted a perpetual exclusive licence to use the 
Branding IP in Australia for the importation (for Imported Products only), 
advertising, promotion, marketing, distribution and sale of the relevant 
Products.  
 
In relation to Brewed Products, the Approved Purchaser would be granted a 
perpetual exclusive licence to use certain Brewing IP for the brewing, 
production, distribution and sale of the Brewed Products in Australia. 
Divestiture will include: 
 
all inventory, all business records, employees, contracts, Consents and 
intellectual property rights; 
 
at the option of the purchaser(s) Asahi must ensure the continuous supply of 
the products and services which are the subject of any Approved Co-Packing 
Agreement for the period of the Approved Co-Packing Agreement; 
 
at the option of the Approved Purchaser(s), Asahi must supply to the 
Approved Purchaser(s), a Transitional Supply Agreement for any goods or 
services that are required by a purchaser to establish itself as a competitor in 
the market for the supply of beer and/or the market for the supply of cider in 
Australia; 


 
 
 
at the option of the Approved Purchaser(s), Asahi must supply to the 
Approved Purchaser(s), a Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement that 
is required by a purchaser in order to effectively operate the Divestiture 
Business; 
 
for a period of two years from the Control Date, Asahi will treat Divestiture 
Business Products as Asahi products for the purposes of any Supply 
Arrangement with an On Premise Venue; 
The undertaking also requires Asahi to appoint: 
 
an ACCC-approved independent manager of the Divestiture Business during 
the divestiture period (from the date of the merger to the completion of the 
divestiture); and an ACCC-approved independent auditor to monitor Asahi’s 
compliance with the undertaking. 
 


 
 
ATTACHMENT B 
 
We have set out below a list of questions you may wish to address in your 
submission. If there are other issues that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the proposed undertaking, please provide views on those issues 
in your response.  
 
1. Is the divestiture proposal and undertaking sufficient to replace any loss of 
competition resulting from the proposed acquisition? Why or why not? Does 
your view differ according to whether there is a single purchaser or separate 
purchasers for the Beer Business and the Cider Business? 
 
2. Does the implementation of the divestiture proposal and undertaking raise 
any new competition concerns? 
 
3. Does the proposed undertaking include all the necessary assets and 
personnel that a purchaser would require to effectively operate the divestiture 
business? If not, please describe what else is necessary to operate the 
divestiture business effectively.  
 
4. Pursuant to clause 11 of the proposed undertaking, for two years, Asahi will 
to treat the divested beer and cider brands as Asahi products for the 
purposes of any supply arrangements with venues (e.g. clubs, pubs or 
restaurants) to serve those brands on tap and/or have space for the brands 
on shelves/refrigerators at the venues.  
 
a. Is clause 11 adequate to address access to taps, shelf space or 
refrigerator space at venues?  
 
b. Is the proposed two year term sufficient? 
 
c. Is it likely that an approved purchaser would be able to continue to 
secure supply arrangements with such venues (1) when the 
arrangements come up for renewal; or (2) after the two year term, 
whichever is later?  
 


 
 
ATTACHMENT C 
 
Proposed undertaking (see separate attachment) 


DRAFT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaking to the Australian 
Competition and Consumer 
Commission 
 
 
 
Given under section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) by Asahi Group 
Holdings, Ltd and Asahi Holdings (Australia) Pty 
Ltd ACN 135 315 767 
 
 
 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


 
 
Contents 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking ................................................................................... 1 
2. 
Background .................................................................................................................... 1 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking ......................................................................... 2 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations ............................................................................ 2 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses ................................................................ 3 
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser ......................................................... 6 
7. 
Divestiture Business Protection ................................................................................ 8 
8. 
Independent Management of the Divestiture Business ....................................... 10 
9. 
Independent Audit ...................................................................................................... 13 
10. 
Failure to divest the Divestiture Business within the Initial Sale Period...... 18 
11. 
On Premise Supply Arrangements ...................................................................... 23 
12. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information ....................... 23 
13. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking ............................................................................ 24 
14. 
Obligation to procure ............................................................................................. 25 
15. 
No Derogation ......................................................................................................... 25 
16. 
Change of Control .................................................................................................. 25 
17. 
Costs ......................................................................................................................... 25 
18. 
Jurisdiction .............................................................................................................. 26 
19. 
Notices ..................................................................................................................... 26 
20. 
Defined terms and interpretation ......................................................................... 27 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation .............................................................................. 30 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form ......................................................................... 36 
Schedule 3 – Undertaking Appointment ................................................................................... 39 
Schedule 4 – Divestiture Businesses ......................................................................................... 43 
Confidential Schedule 5 ............................................................................................................ 46 
Schedule 6 – Trade Marks ........................................................................................................ 47 
 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


1 
 
1. 
Person giving the Undertaking 
1.1. 
This Undertaking is given to the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) by Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. (AGH) and its subsidiary 
Asahi Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd ACN 135 315 767  (AHA) (together referred to 
as Asahi in this Undertaking). 
2. 
Background 
The parties to the proposed acquisition 
2.1. 
Acquirer: The Acquirer is AHA, a private company incorporated in Victoria, 
Australia, which is the entity through which AGH and its wholly-owned 
subsidiaries operates its Australian business. AGH, a corporation organised 
under the laws of Japan, manufactures and sells alcoholic beverages, soft drinks 
and food products in Japan and internationally.  Asahi operates in the alcohol 
sector in Australia through its subsidiary Asahi Premium Beverages Pty Ltd, 
which manufactures and supplies a range of beer, cider and spirits products.   
2.2. 
Target: The target entity is ABI Australia Holding Pty Ltd (ABIH), which is the 
wholly owned subsidiary of Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (ABI), a multinational 
brewing company incorporated in Belgium.  Through ABIH, ABI operates Carlton 
United Breweries (CUB), an Australian brewing company which produces a range 
of beer and cider brands.   
The Proposed Acquisition 
2.3. 
AGH proposes, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals, to acquire the entire 
business of ABI in Australia, including CUB, through an acquisition of 100% of the 
shares in ABIH (the Proposed Acquisition).  
The ACCC’s review 
2.4. 
On 23 August 2019, the ACCC commenced its public review of the Proposed 
Acquisition. 
2.5. 
The ACCC undertook market inquiries and considered information provided by 
the parties to the Proposed Acquisition, industry participants and others. The 
purpose of the ACCC’s inquiries was to assess whether the Proposed Acquisition 
would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market in Australia in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
The ACCC’s competition concerns 
2.6. 
The ACCC has concluded that, in the absence of the Undertaking, the Proposed 
Acquisition:  
(a) would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in 
the market for the supply of cider products in Australia (Cider Market); 
(b) may have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the market for 
the supply of beer products in Australia (Beer Market). 
2.7. 
The ACCC was concerned that the Proposed Acquisition: 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


2 
 
(a) would lead to a significant consolidation in the Cider Market, whereby there 
would be a lessening of competitive constraints and the worsening of 
market outcomes for consumers; and  
(b) would remove Asahi as a competitor in the concentrated Beer Market.  
The Undertaking remedy 
2.8. 
Asahi does not consider that the Proposed Acquisition would have the effect, or 
be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any relevant 
market.  However, to address the ACCC’s competition concerns, Asahi has 
offered this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act. 
2.9. 
The objective of this Undertaking is to address the ACCC’s competition concerns, 
as set out above, that would otherwise arise as a consequence of the Proposed 
Acquisition. The Undertaking aims to achieve this objective by placing obligations 
on Asahi: 
(a) to ensure that the Divestiture Businesses are sold to an Approved 
Purchaser that will result in the creation or strengthening of a viable, 
effective, stand-alone, independent and long term competitor(s) in the Cider 
Market and Beer Market; 
(b) to ensure the purchaser(s) of the Divestiture Businesses has all the 
necessary associated assets and rights to compete effectively with Asahi in 
the Cider Market and/or Beer Market; 
(c) 
to maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and 
goodwill of the Divestiture Businesses prior to divestiture; and  
(d) to provide for the effective oversight of Asahi’s compliance with this 
Undertaking. 
3. 
Commencement of this Undertaking 
3.1. 
This Undertaking comes into effect when: 
(a) 
this Undertaking is executed by Asahi; and 
(b) 
this Undertaking so executed is accepted by the ACCC 
(the Commencement Date). 
 
4. 
Cessation of Ongoing Obligations 
Withdrawal 
4.1. 
Asahi may request withdrawal of this Undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the 
Act at any time. This Undertaking is taken to be withdrawn on the date the ACCC 
consents in writing to that withdrawal. 
Revocation 
4.2. 
The ACCC may, at any time, revoke its acceptance of this Undertaking if the 
ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was incorrect, 
inaccurate or misleading.  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


3 
 
Waiver 
4.3. 
The ACCC may, at any time, expressly waive in writing any of the obligations 
contained in this Undertaking or extend the date by which any such obligation is 
to be satisfied. 
Survival 
4.4. 
Unless and until this Undertaking is withdrawn in accordance with clause 4.1, 
clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 survive completion of the 
obligations in clauses 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and Schedule 4 and Schedule 5. 
5. 
Divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses 
Divestiture  
5.1. 
Asahi must, in accordance with this Undertaking, divest, or cause the divestiture 
of, the Divestiture Businesses only to an Approved Purchaser.  
5.2. 
In the event that clause 10 applies, Asahi must not authorise the Approved 
Divestiture Agent to divest any Divestiture Business to a purchaser other than an 
Approved Purchaser. 
5.3. 
Asahi must divest, or cause the divestiture of, the Divestiture Businesses by:  
(a) the sale, assignment, transfer and/or licence of all of the assets in Schedule 
4 to one or more Approved Purchasers, pursuant to one or more Approved 
Sale and Purchase Agreements and within the Initial Sale Period, otherwise 
clause 10 applies; 
(b) the transfer or grant to the Approved Purchaser(s) of Consents pursuant to 
clauses 5.5 to 5.6; 
(c) 
the transfer of any Transferred Personnel required pursuant to clauses 5.8 
to 5.9; 
(d) compliance with any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement required pursuant to clauses 5.13 to 5.15;  
(e) compliance with any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement required 
pursuant to clauses 5.16 to 5.18; and 
(f) 
compliance with any Approved Co-Packing Agreement.  
5.4. 
Asahi may divest the Divestiture Business by divesting the Beer Business and the 
Cider Business to separate Approved Purchasers of the Beer Business and the 
Cider Business, respectively. In the event that this clause 5.4 applies, each of the 
Beer Business and the Cider Business shall separately be considered to be the 
Divestiture Business for the purposes of this Undertaking. 
Consents 
5.5. 
Asahi must:  
(a) obtain or assist the Approved Purchaser(s) to obtain as expeditiously as 
possible, all Consents as required before completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Businesses; 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


4 
 
(b) comply with all requirements necessary to obtain any Consents, including 
by promptly providing all information necessary for the Consents to be 
given; 
(c) 
act in good faith in its negotiations with the Approved Purchaser(s) in 
relation to obtaining any Consents; 
(d) promptly pay the costs and expenses of any third party reasonably incurred 
in providing the Consents; and  
(e)  enter an agreement with the Approved Purchaser(s) which is approved by 
the ACCC, or vary any existing Approved Transitional Supply Agreement or 
Approved Co-Packing Agreement as required by the Approved 
Purchaser(s), in relation to any goods or services that are required for the 
operation of the relevant Divestiture Business which may be affected by any 
failure to gain a Consent. 
5.6. 
If, seven Business Days after completion of the divestiture of the relevant 
Divestiture Business, the relevant Approved Purchaser does not or is otherwise 
unable to obtain one or more Consents, then Asahi must: 
(a)  immediately provide to the ACCC in writing details of the: 
(i) 
Consents that have not been obtained; 
(ii) 
reasons why the Consents have not been obtained; and 
(iii) 
information or material required to obtain the Consents. 
(b) continue to do everything in its power to satisfy clause 5.5 as soon as 
possible after the completion of the divestiture of the relevant Divestiture 
Business (and until such time as clause 5.5 is satisfied).  
5.7. 
Even if Asahi has complied with clause 5.5 to 5.6, it remains a breach of this 
Undertaking if Asahi is unable to effect the divestiture of a Divestiture Business 
by reason that one or more Consents are not obtained.  
Transferred Personnel  
5.8. 
At the option of an Approved Purchaser of a Divestiture Business, Asahi must 
transfer to the Approved Purchaser:  
(a) all employees of the relevant Divestiture Business; and  
(b) all service providers under a contract for service to the relevant Divestiture 
Business; 
who are, in the view of the Approved Purchaser, required for the Approved 
Purchaser to maintain, operate or conduct effectively the relevant Divestiture 
Business and who consent to the transfer of their employment or contract for 
service to the Approved Purchaser (Transferred Personnel). 
5.9. 
When fulfilling its obligations under clause 5.8, Asahi must:  
(a) encourage all Transferred Personnel to remain with the relevant Divestiture 
Business, including offering incentives based on industry practice;  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


5 
 
(b) not directly or indirectly discourage any Transferred Personnel from any 
obligations to provide services to the relevant Divestiture Business; 
(c) 
effective on the date of the divestiture of the relevant Divestiture Business, 
release the Transferred Personnel from any obligations to provide services 
to Asahi;  
(d) effective on the date of the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, release 
the Transferred Personnel from any non-compete or similar restraint of 
trade obligation, to the extent that such an obligation would otherwise 
prevent the person from performing his or her contemplated role in relation 
to the relevant Divestiture Business or Unsold Business; and 
(e) not procure, promote or encourage the transfer of any of the Transferred 
Personnel from the Approved Purchaser to Asahi for a period of 12 months 
after the completion of the divestiture of the relevant Divestiture Business. 
Approved Co-Packing Agreement 
5.10. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser(s), Asahi must ensure the continuous 
supply of the products and services which are the subject of any Approved Co-
Packing Agreement for the period of the Approved Co-Packing Agreement. 
5.11. 
Asahi must ensure that any Approved Co-Packing Agreement: 
(a) is for a reasonable period to enable the Approved Purchaser to be a viable, 
effective, stand-alone independent and long-term competitor in the Cider 
and/or Beer Markets; 
(b) is on such terms which are no less favourable to the Approved Purchaser 
than arm’s length terms. 
5.12. 
To avoid doubt, Asahi must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Co-Packing Agreement. Without limiting the 
ACCC’s discretion, in making a decision on whether to approve a renewal or 
extension of an Approved Co-Packing Agreement, the ACCC will have regard to 
the criteria set out in clauses 5.10 and 5.11.  
Technical Assistance 
5.13. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser(s), Asahi must supply to the Approved 
Purchaser(s), under one or more Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement(s), any Technical Assistance that is required by the Approved 
Purchaser in order to operate the relevant Divestiture Business. 
5.14. 
Asahi must ensure that any Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement, and any renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Assistance Agreement, provides for the supply of Technical Assistance:  
(a) on a transitional basis for a period that is nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser and approved in writing by the ACCC; and 
(b) at cost and otherwise on arm’s length terms.  
5.15. 
To avoid doubt, Asahi must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement. Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in making a decision on 
whether to approve a renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Technical 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


6 
 
Assistance Agreement, the ACCC will have regard to the criteria set out in 
clauses 5.13 and 5.14. 
Transitional Supply Agreements  
5.16. 
At the option of the Approved Purchaser(s), Asahi must ensure the continued 
supply by Asahi to the Approved Purchaser(s), under one or more Approved 
Transitional Supply Agreement(s), of any goods or services (other than the 
products supplied under the Approved Co-Packing Agreement) that are required 
by the Approved Purchaser(s) in order for the Approved Purchaser to be 
established as a viable, effective, stand-alone, independent and long-term 
competitor in the Cider Market and/or Beer Market.  
5.17. 
Asahi must ensure that any Approved Transitional Supply Agreement and any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement:  
(a) is for a reasonable transitional period, to be nominated by the Approved 
Purchaser(s) and approved in writing by the ACCC; 
(b) provides for the supply of the included goods and services at cost price; and  
(c) 
is on such terms other than price which are no less favourable to the 
Approved Purchaser(s) than arm's length terms.  
5.18. 
To avoid doubt, Asahi must seek prior written approval from the ACCC of any 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement. Without 
limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in making a decision on whether to approve a 
renewal or extension of an Approved Transitional Supply Agreement, the ACCC 
will have regard to the criteria set out in clauses 5.16 and 5.17.  
 
6. 
Process for approving a proposed purchaser 
Potential purchasers 
6.1. 
 Asahi must provide the ACCC and Approved Independent Auditor with: 
(a) the identity of any person who expresses an interest in acquiring a 
Divestiture Business;  
(b) the status of negotiations with each person; and  
(c) 
a copy of each person’s offer to acquire the Divestiture Business or 
Divesture Businesses, where relevant; 
at the following times: 
(d) as soon as possible following the Commencement Date for those persons 
who express interest before the Commencement date;  
(e) after the Commencement Date, within 10 Business Days of each person 
expressing the interest and/or providing an offer;  
regardless of whether the person subsequently withdraws or is declined. 
Provision of a notice for a Proposed Purchaser  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


7 
 
6.2. 
To seek ACCC approval for a Proposed Purchaser, Asahi or the Approved 
Divestiture Agent must provide the ACCC with a notice in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 2 to this Undertaking (Proposed Purchaser Notice), including a draft 
sale and purchase agreement, a draft co-packing agreement (where required by 
the Proposed Purchaser), a draft transitional technical assistance agreement 
(where required by the Proposed Purchaser), and a draft transitional supply 
agreement (where required by the Proposed Purchaser). 
6.3. 
The Proposed Purchaser Notice must be provided to the ACCC at least 
20 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period.  
Approval of a Proposed Purchaser after the Commencement Date  
6.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Purchaser identified in the Proposed Purchaser Notice, which includes 
consideration of:  
(a) the draft sale and purchase agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice;  
(b) any draft co-packing agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser Notice, 
in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.10 and 5.11. 
(c) 
any draft transitional technical assistance agreement attached to the 
Proposed Purchaser Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.13 
and 5.14; and 
(d) any draft transitional supply agreement attached to the Proposed Purchaser 
Notice, in accordance with the criteria in clauses 5.16 and 5.17. 
6.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in making the decision pursuant to clause 
6.5, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard include whether the:  
(a) draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with this Undertaking;  
(b) Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as contemplated by the 
draft sale and purchase agreement;  
(c) 
Proposed Purchaser is independent of Asahi;  
(d) Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing;  
(e) Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and operate the 
Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
(f) 
Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture Business effectively; 
and 
(g) divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed Purchaser will 
address any competition concerns of the ACCC in the Cider Market and / or 
Beer Market (as applicable), including in relation to the likely long-term 
viability and competitiveness of the Divestiture Business under the 
ownership of the Proposed Purchaser. 
6.7. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Purchaser’s status as the Approved 
Purchaser if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it was 
incorrect, inaccurate or misleading. 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


8 
 
7. 
Divestiture Business Protection 
Protection of the Divestiture Business 
7.1. 
From the Control Date, Asahi must not sell or transfer its interest, or any assets 
comprising part of, or used in, a Divestiture Business (other than the sale of 
goods and services in the ordinary course of business) or make any Material 
Change, except in accordance with this Undertaking or (subject to the other terms 
of this Undertaking) as necessary to allow completion of the Proposed 
Acquisition.   
Asahi’s obligations in relation to the Divestiture Business prior to completion of 
divestiture 
7.2. 
Without limiting this clause 7, Asahi must, from the Control Date until completion 
of the divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses, take all steps available to it to:  
(a) ensure that the Divestiture Businesses are managed and operated in the 
ordinary course of business as a fully operational, competitive going concern 
and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Businesses at the Control 
Date; 
(b) continue to provide access to working capital and sources of credit for the 
Divestiture Businesses in a manner which is consistent with the financing of 
the Divestiture Business before the Control Date;  
(c) 
continue to provide administrative and technical support for the Divestiture 
Businesses in a manner which is consistent with the operation of the 
Divestiture Businesses before the Control Date and in accordance with any 
plans established before the Control Date; 
(d) continue existing Agreements relating to the Divestiture Businesses with 
customers, suppliers and/or other third parties that are in place at the 
Control Date; 
(e) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts for the provision of goods 
or services to the Divestiture Businesses on commercial terms favourable to 
the Divestiture Business; 
(f) 
maintain the supply of those goods and services that are part of the 
Divestiture Businesses to existing customers in a manner consistent with the 
supply of those goods and services as at the Control Date; 
(g) maintain the standard of manufacture, distribution, promotion and sale of 
those products which form part of the Divestiture Businesses as at the 
Control Date; and 
(h) carry out promotion and marketing of the products which form part of the 
Divestiture Businesses in accordance with any plans established before the 
Control Date.  
Personnel of Asahi 
7.3. 
From the Control Date until completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture 
Businesses, Asahi must:  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


9 
 
(a) in consultation with the Approved Independent Manager, replace any: 
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or 
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Businesses; 
who leave or will leave the Divestiture Businesses before divestiture; 
(b) not terminate or vary the terms of employment or engagement (or agree to 
do any of those things) of any of the 
(i) 
Transferred Personnel; or 
(ii) 
if the Transferred Personnel have not yet been identified, any 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Businesses, 
other than for cause (such as serious breach of a Transferred Personnel’s 
employment contract, including serious misconduct that might harm the 
reputation of any Divestiture Business or Asahi, or otherwise contravene 
the law or give rise to a legal liability); and  
(c) 
not directly or indirectly procure, promote or encourage the redeployment of 
personnel necessary for the operation of the Divestiture Businesses as at 
the Control Date to any other business operated by Asahi. 
7.4. 
As soon as practicable after the Commencement Date, Asahi must direct its 
personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, officers, employees and 
agents not to do anything inconsistent with Asahi’s obligations under this 
Undertaking. 
Asahi’s ongoing obligations in relation to the Divestiture Businesses 
7.5. 
To the extent Asahi has obligations in relation to the provision of transitional 
technical assistance or continued supply pursuant to clauses 5.13 to 5.18 of this 
Undertaking in relation to the Divestiture Businesses, Asahi must not sell, assign, 
transfer, and/or licence directly or indirectly any of the assets necessary to fulfil 
such obligations without the prior written consent of the ACCC.  
Confidential Information 
7.6. 
Subject to clause 7.7, Asahi must not, at any time from the Commencement Date, 
use or disclose any confidential information about the Divestiture Businesses 
gained through:  
(a) ownership and/or management of the Divestiture Businesses; or 
(b) fulfilling any obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. 
7.7. 
Clause 7.6 does not apply to information that Asahi requires to:  
(a) comply with legal and regulatory obligations including obligations relating to 
taxation, accounting, financial reporting or stock exchange disclosure 
requirements; or 
(b) carry out its obligations pursuant to this Undertaking; 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


10 
 
provided such information is only used for that purpose and is only disclosed to 
those officers, employees, contractors and advisers of Asahi who need to know 
the information to carry out the permitted purpose. 
8. 
Independent Management of the Divestiture Business 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Manager 
8.1. 
Asahi must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Manager to manage 
the Divestiture Businesses, from the Control Date until the completion of the 
divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses in accordance with this Undertaking.  
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Manager 
8.2. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, Asahi must provide the ACCC 
with a notice for a Proposed Independent Manager in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Manager Notice), 
including a draft terms of appointment and a draft separation and management 
plan.  
8.3. 
If clauses 8.12, 8.13 or 8.14 apply, Asahi must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Independent Manager Notice within five Business Days after the 
relevant event occurs, otherwise clause 8.8 applies. 
8.4. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Manager identified in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice. 
8.5. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Independent Manager, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) person named in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice or identified by 
the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to manage the 
Divestiture Businesses;  
(b) person named in the Proposed Independent Manager Notice or identified by 
the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Asahi;  
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan 
are consistent with this Undertaking; and 
(d) draft terms of appointment and the draft separation and management plan 
are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Manager  
8.6. 
 After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Independent Manager, the draft terms of appointment and draft separation and 
management plan, Asahi must by the Control Date: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Manager on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


11 
 
8.7. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Independent Manager has not been appointed by the Control 
Date; 
(b) the Approved Independent Manager has not been appointed within 15 
Business Days after the Approved Independent Manager resigns or 
otherwise ceases to act as the Approved Independent Manager pursuant to 
clause 8.12, 8.13 or 8.14; or 
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Manager Notice 
pursuant to clause 8.3; 
then clause 8.8 applies. 
8.8. 
If clause 8.7 applies, the ACCC at its discretion may: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Manager, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved 
Independent Manager and the draft separation and management plan; 
and/or 
(b) direct Asahi  to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Independent Manager.   
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Manager 
8.9. 
Asahi must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager include obligations on the Approved Independent 
Manager to:  
(a) maintain his or her independence from Asahi, apart from appointment to the 
role of Approved Independent Manager, including not forming any 
relationship of the types described in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 3 to this 
Undertaking with Asahi for the period of his or her appointment;  
(b) act in the best interests of the Divestiture Businesses at all times including 
ensuring that the Divestiture Businesses are managed and operated in the 
ordinary course of business as a fully operational, competitive going concern 
and in such a way that preserves the economic viability, marketability, 
competitiveness and goodwill of the Divestiture Businesses at the Control 
Date; 
(c) 
not use any confidential information gained through the management of the 
Divestiture Businesses other than for performing his or her functions as 
Approved Independent Manager; 
(d) make only those Material Changes to the Divestiture Businesses which the 
ACCC does not object to; 
(e) operate and manage the Divestiture Businesses to the maximum extent 
practicable, in a manner which is financially and operationally separate from 
Asahi; 
(f) 
co-operate with the requests of any Approved Divestiture Agent or Approved 
Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking. 
(g) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


12 
 
(i) 
a monthly written report regarding the implementation of and any 
suggested changes to the Approved Separation and Management 
Plan; and 
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
implementation of the Approved Separation and Management Plan or 
Asahi’s compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(h) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Manager 
pursuant to this Undertaking. 
8.10. 
Asahi must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager provide the Approved Independent Manager with the sole 
authority to:  
(a) manage and operate the Divestiture Businesses according to the Approved 
Separation and Management Plan until the completion of the divestiture of 
the Divestiture Businesses; 
(b) provide any information requested by Asahi pursuant to the protocol in the 
Approved Separation and Management Plan;  
(c) 
decide whether or not to provide access and the manner of such access to 
competitively sensitive information relating to the Divestiture Businesses 
requested by Asahi which is not covered by the protocol in the Approved 
Separation and Management Plan; 
(d) renew or replace upon expiry Material Contracts and enter into new 
contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture Businesses 
on commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Businesses; 
(e) engage, redeploy or make redundant personnel employed in the Divestiture 
Businesses as the Approved Independent Manager determines necessary; 
and 
(f) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Independent Manager to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Manager.  
Asahi’s obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Manager 
8.11. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Asahi must: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment of the 
Approved Independent Manager;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Independent Manager to carry out his or 
her functions, including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Manager for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Manager of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Manager except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Manager;  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


13 
 
(ii) 
ensuring that the Approved Independent Manager is fully able to 
acquire and pay for sufficient and timely delivery of all goods and 
services (including from third parties) which the Approved 
Independent Manager considers are required by the Divestiture 
Businesses; and 
(iii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Manager to perform his or 
her functions as the Approved Independent Manager; and 
(c) 
not interfere with the authority of, or otherwise hinder, the Approved 
Independent Manager’s ability to carry out his or her obligations as the 
Approved Independent Manager, including: 
(i) 
accepting (and directing its directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents to accept) direction from the 
Approved Independent Manager as to the control, management, 
financing and operations of the Divestiture Businesses, and for the 
Divestiture Businesses to meet all legal, corporate, financial, 
accounting, taxation, audit and regulatory obligations;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the 
Divestiture Businesses required by the Approved Independent 
Manager; 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Manager any information or 
documents that he or she considers necessary for managing and 
operating the Divestiture Businesses or for reporting to or otherwise 
advising the ACCC; and 
(iv) 
not requesting information or reports regarding the Divestiture 
Businesses from the personnel of the Divestiture Businesses except 
through the Approved Independent Manager; and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Manager, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Manager, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Manager’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Manager ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Manager. 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Manager 
8.12. 
 Asahi must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Manager resigns or otherwise stops acting as the       
Approved Independent Manager before the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Businesses.  
8.13. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Manager’s status as the 
Approved Independent Manager if the ACCC becomes aware that any 
information provided to it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
8.14. 
The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Asahi to 
terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent Manager if in the 
ACCC's view the Approved Independent Manager acts inconsistently with the 
provisions of this Undertaking or the Approved Terms of Appointment.  
9. 
Independent Audit 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


14 
 
Obligation to appoint an Approved Independent Auditor 
9.1. 
Asahi must appoint and maintain an Approved Independent Auditor to audit and 
report upon Asahi’s compliance with this Undertaking. 
Process for approving a Proposed Independent Auditor 
9.2. 
At least 15 Business Days before the Control Date, Asahi must provide the 
ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Independent Auditor in the form prescribed in 
Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Independent Auditor Notice), 
including draft terms of appointment and a draft audit plan.  
9.3. 
The Independent Auditor is to be appointed for a term of two years. Within 15 
Business Days of the end of the Independent Auditor’s term, Asahi must provide 
the ACCC with a new Proposed Independent Auditor Notice. A person who is, or 
who has been, the Independent Auditor is eligible for reappointment as the 
Independent Auditor.  
9.4. 
If clauses 9.17, 9.18 or 9.19 apply, Asahi must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice within five Business Days after the 
relevant event occurs, otherwise clause 9.9 applies.  
9.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Independent Auditor identified in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice.  
9.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Independent Auditor, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry 
out the functions of the Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Independent Auditor Notice or identified 
by the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Asahi;  
(c) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are consistent with 
this Undertaking; and 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment and the draft audit plan are otherwise 
acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.7. 
After receiving a written notice from the ACCC of its approval of a Proposed 
Independent Auditor, the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan, Asahi 
must by the Control Date: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Independent 
Auditor on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
9.8. 
If: 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


15 
 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed by the Control 
Date;  
(b) the Approved Independent Auditor has not been appointed within 15 
Business Days after the Approved Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise 
ceases to act as the Approved Independent Auditor pursuant to clause 9.17, 
9.18, or 9.19; or  
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Independent Auditor Notice 
pursuant to clause 9.4;  
then clause 9.9 applies. 
9.9. 
If clause 9.8 applies, the ACCC at its absolute discretion may: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including approving the draft terms of appointment and draft audit plan; 
and/or 
(b) direct Asahi  to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.10. 
Asahi must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor include obligations on the Approved Independent Auditor to:  
(a) maintain his or her independence from Asahi, apart from appointment to the 
role of Approved Independent Auditor, including not forming any relationship 
of the types described in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking 
with Asahi for the period of his or her appointment;  
(b) conduct compliance auditing according to the Approved Audit Plan; 
(c) 
where requested by the ACCC, assess the suitability of any Proposed 
Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture Business(s) against the 
factors (as relevant) in clause 6.6; 
(d) provide the following reports directly to the ACCC: 
(i) 
a scheduled written Audit Report as described in clause 9.12;  
(ii) 
an immediate report of any issues that arise in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent 
Auditor or in relation to compliance with this Undertaking by any 
person named in this Undertaking; and 
(iii) 
where requested by the ACCC, a report on the suitability of any 
Proposed Purchaser or potential purchaser of the Divestiture 
Business following an assessment under clause 9.10(c); and  
(e) follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Independent Auditor under 
this Undertaking. 
9.11. 
Asahi must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Auditor provide the Approved Independent Auditor with the authority 
to:  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


16 
 
(a) access the facilities, sites or operations of the Divestiture Businesses and 
Asahi’s other businesses as required by the Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) access any information or documents that the Approved Independent 
Auditor considers necessary for carrying out his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or otherwise advising the 
ACCC; and 
(c) 
engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her functions as the 
Approved Independent Auditor.  
Compliance Audit  
9.12. 
The Approved Independent Auditor must conduct an audit and prepare a detailed 
report (Audit Report) that includes: 
(a) the Approved Independent Auditor’s procedures in conducting the audit, or 
any change to audit procedures and processes since the previous Audit 
Report; 
(b) a full audit of Asahi’s compliance with this Undertaking;  
(c) 
identification of any areas of uncertainty or ambiguity in the Approved 
Independent Auditor’s interpretation of any obligations contained in this 
Undertaking; 
(d) all of the reasons for the conclusions reached in the Audit Report; 
(e) any qualifications made by the Approved Independent Auditor in forming his 
or her views;  
(f) 
any recommendations by the Approved Independent Auditor to improve: 
(i) 
the Approved Audit Plan; 
(ii) 
the integrity of the auditing process;  
(iii) 
Asahi’s processes or reporting systems in relation to compliance 
with this Undertaking; and 
(iv) 
Asahi’s compliance with this Undertaking; and 
(g) the implementation and outcome of any prior recommendations by the 
Approved Independent Auditor.  
9.13. 
The Approved Independent Auditor is to provide an Audit Report to the ACCC 
and Asahi at the following times:  
(a) within 10 Business Days after the Control Date, at which time the Audit 
Report is to include the results of the initial audit and any recommended 
changes to the Approved Audit Plan, including the Approved Independent 
Auditor’s proposed procedures  and processes for conducting the audit 
(Establishment Audit);  
(b) every month from the date of the Establishment Audit until one month after 
the divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses is completed;  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


17 
 
(c) 
every three months after the date of provision of the last Audit Report 
pursuant to clause 9.13(b), until the ACCC confirms in writing to Asahi that it 
is satisfied that Asahi has fulfilled its obligations pursuant to this 
Undertaking; and  
(d) a final report due three months after the last report provided pursuant to 
clause 9.13(c). 
9.14. 
Asahi must implement any recommendations made by the Approved Independent 
Auditor in Audit Reports, and notify the ACCC of the implementation of the 
recommendations, within 10 Business Days after receiving the Audit Report or 
such other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC.  
9.15. 
Asahi must comply with any direction of the ACCC in relation to matters arising 
from the Audit Report within 10 Business Days after being so directed (or such 
other period as agreed in writing with the ACCC).  
Asahi’s obligations in relation to the Approved Independent Auditor 
9.16. 
Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Asahi must: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Independent Auditor;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Independent Auditor to carry out his or her 
functions including:  
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Independent Auditor for any expenses, 
loss, claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the 
performance by the Approved Independent Auditor of his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor except where such 
expenses, loss, claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, 
fraud, misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Independent 
Auditor;  
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Independent Auditor to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor; and 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Independent Auditor’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Independent Auditor, 
including: 
(i) 
directing Asahi personnel, including directors, contractors, 
managers, officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with 
this clause 9;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the 
Divestiture Businesses and Asahi’s other businesses as required by 
the Approved Independent Auditor; 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Independent Auditor any information or 
documents he or she considers necessary for carrying out his or her 
functions as the Approved Independent Auditor or for reporting to or 
otherwise advising the ACCC; 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


18 
 
(iv) 
not requesting any information relating to the compliance audit from 
the Approved Independent Auditor without such a request having 
been approved by the ACCC;  and 
(v) 
not appointing the Approved Independent Auditor, or have any 
Agreements with the Approved Independent Auditor, to utilise the 
Approved Independent Auditor’s services for anything other than 
compliance with this Undertaking until at least 12 months after the 
Approved Independent Auditor ceases to act in the role of the 
Approved Independent Auditor. 
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Independent Auditor  
9.17. 
Asahi must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that the Approved 
Independent Auditor resigns or otherwise stops acting as the Approved 
Independent Auditor.  
9.18. 
The ACCC may revoke an Approved Independent Auditor’s status as the 
Approved Independent Auditor if the ACCC becomes aware that any information 
provided to it was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
9.19. 
The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Asahi to 
terminate the appointment of the Approved Independent Auditor if in the ACCC's 
view the Approved Independent Auditor acts inconsistently with the provisions of 
this Undertaking and/or the Approved Terms of Appointment or the Approved 
Independent Auditor fails to perform their role to an adequate standard.  
10. 
Failure to divest the Divestiture Business within the Initial 
Sale Period 
Divestiture of the Unsold Business 
10.1. 
In the event that the divestiture of a Divestiture Business to an Approved 
Purchaser is not completed by the end of the Initial Sale Period, the Divestiture 
Business becomes an unsold business (Unsold Business) and the provisions of 
this clause 10 apply.  
Obligation to appoint an Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.2. 
From the end of the Initial Sale Period, Asahi must appoint and maintain an 
Approved Divestiture Agent to effect the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
Process for approving a Proposed Divestiture Agent 
10.3. 
At least 15 Business Days prior to the end of the Initial Sale Period, if the 
divestiture of a Divestiture Business has not been completed, Asahi must provide 
the ACCC with a notice for a Proposed Divestiture Agent in the form of 
Schedule 3 to this Undertaking (Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice) including 
draft terms of appointment, a draft business sale agreement, and draft marketing 
and sale plan. 
10.4. 
If clauses 10.14, 10.15 or 10.16 apply, Asahi must provide the ACCC with a 
Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice within five Business Days after the relevant 
event occurs, otherwise clause 10.9 applies. 
10.5. 
The ACCC shall have the discretion to approve or reject in writing the Proposed 
Divestiture Agent.  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


19 
 
10.6. 
Without limiting the ACCC’s discretion, in deciding whether to approve a 
Proposed Divestiture Agent, the factors to which the ACCC may have regard 
include whether the:  
(a) 
person named in Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice or identified by the 
ACCC has the qualifications and experience necessary to carry out the 
functions of the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(b) 
person named in the Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice or identified by 
the ACCC is sufficiently independent of Asahi; 
(c) 
draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft 
marketing and sale plan are consistent with this Undertaking; and 
(d) 
draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement and draft 
marketing and sale plan are otherwise acceptable to the ACCC. 
Appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.7. 
After receiving written notice from the ACCC of its approval of the Proposed 
Divestiture Agent, the draft terms of appointment, draft business sale agreement 
and draft marketing and sale plan, Asahi must within two Business Days: 
(a) appoint the person approved by the ACCC as the Approved Divestiture 
Agent on the Approved Terms of Appointment; and 
(b) forward to the ACCC a copy of the executed Approved Terms of 
Appointment. 
Failure to appoint 
10.8. 
If: 
(a) the Approved Divestiture Agent has not been appointed within 10 Business 
Days after a Divestiture Business becomes an Unsold Business;  
(b) the Approved Divestiture Agent has not been appointed within 15 Business 
Days after the Approved Divestiture Agent resigns or otherwise ceases to 
act pursuant to clauses 10.14, 10.15 or 10.16; or  
(c) 
the ACCC has not received a Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice pursuant to 
clause 10.4; 
then clause 10.9 applies. 
10.9. 
If clause 10.8 applies, the ACCC may, at its absolute discretion: 
(a) identify and approve a person as the Approved Divestiture Agent, including 
approving the draft terms of appointment of the Approved Divestiture Agent, 
draft business sale agreement and draft marketing and sale plan; and/or 
(b) direct Asahi  to appoint a person who the ACCC has deemed is an 
Approved Divestiture Agent. 
Obligations and powers of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.10. Asahi must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Divestiture Agent include obligations on the Approved Divestiture Agent to:  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


20 
 
(a) divest the Unsold Business only to an Approved Purchaser, at no minimum 
price;   
(b) maintain his or her independence from Asahi, apart from appointment to the 
role of Approved Divestiture Agent, including not form any relationship of the 
types described in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 3 to this Undertaking with 
Asahi for the period of his or her appointment;  
(c) 
not use any confidential information gained through the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business other than for performing his or her functions as Approved 
Divestiture Agent; 
(d) follow the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan;  
(e) use his or her best endeavours to enter into a binding agreement for the 
divestiture of the Unsold Business as quickly as possible using the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement;  
(f) 
co-operate with the requests of any Approved Independent Manager or 
Approved Independent Auditor appointed pursuant to this Undertaking; 
(g) every 30 Business Days following appointment of the Approved Divestiture 
Agent, provide written reports directly to the ACCC which include: 
(i) 
information regarding the implementation of the Approved Business 
Sale Agreement and the Approved Marketing and Sale Plan 
including any previous changes approved by the ACCC; 
(ii) 
information regarding any suggested changes to any Approved 
Marketing and Sale Plan including any previous changes approved 
by the ACCC; 
(iii) 
an account and explanation of all disbursements, fees and charges 
incurred by the Approved Divestiture Agent in undertaking his or her 
duties by month and to the date of the report; 
(iv) 
a schedule of agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
(including the fees of any adviser appointed under clause 10.11(d)); 
(v) 
the efforts made to sell the Unsold Business; 
(vi) 
the identity of any advisers engaged; 
(vii) 
the identity of any persons expressing interest in the Unsold 
Business; and 
(viii) any other information required by the ACCC. 
(h) within 30 Business Days after the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold 
Business, provide a written report directly to the ACCC which includes a 
final accounting of: 
(i) 
any moneys derived from the divestiture of the Unsold Business; 
(ii) 
all disbursements, fees and charges incurred by the Approved 
Divestiture Agent in fulfilling his or her duties; and 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


21 
 
(iii) 
all agreed fees of the Approved Divestiture Agent (including the fees 
of any adviser appointed under clause 10.11(d); 
(i) 
immediately inform the ACCC of: 
(i) 
any issues that arise in relation to the implementation of the 
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement and any Approved 
Marketing and Sale Plan; 
(ii) 
non-compliance with this Undertaking by any person named in this 
Undertaking;  
(iii) 
any offers for the Unsold Business; 
(j) 
accept any offer for the Unsold Business upon instruction from Asahi given 
in accordance with clause 10.13(d); and 
(k) 
follow any direction given to him or her by the ACCC in relation to the 
performance of his or her functions as Approved Divestiture Agent pursuant 
to this Undertaking. 
10.11.  Asahi must procure that any proposed terms of appointment for the Approved 
Divestiture Agent contain an irrevocable grant of power of attorney conferring all 
necessary power and authority on the Approved Divestiture Agent to: 
(a) negotiate with purchasers to divest the Unsold Business on terms 
considered by the Approved Divestiture Agent in his or her sole discretion to 
be consistent with this Undertaking and the Approved Marketing and Sale 
Plan; 
(b) execute any agreements with the Approved Purchaser required pursuant to 
clause 6.5; 
(c) 
upon instruction pursuant to clause 10.13(d), complete the divestiture of the 
Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser in accordance with the 
Approved Business Sale Agreement; and 
(d) engage any external expertise, assistance or advice required by the 
Approved Divestiture Agent to perform his or her functions as the Approved 
Divestiture Agent. 
10.12. Any irrevocable power of attorney granted pursuant to clause 10.11 will end upon 
resignation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Agent in accordance with 
clauses 10.14, 10.15 and 10.16, or in the event that the Unsold Business is 
divested in accordance with this Undertaking. 
Asahi’s obligations in relation to the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.13. Without limiting its obligations in this Undertaking, Asahi must from the end of the 
Initial Sale Period: 
(a) comply with and enforce the Approved Terms of Appointment for the 
Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(b) maintain and fund the Approved Divestiture Agent to carry out his or her 
functions; including:  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


22 
 
(i) 
indemnifying the Approved Divestiture Agent for any expenses, loss, 
claim or damage arising directly or indirectly from the performance 
by the Approved Divestiture Agent of his or her functions as the 
Approved Divestiture Agent except where such expenses, loss, 
claim or damage arises out of the gross negligence, fraud, 
misconduct or breach of duty by the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(ii) 
providing and paying for any external expertise, assistance or advice 
required by the Approved Divestiture Agent to perform his or her 
functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent;  
(iii) 
paying such fees as are agreed between the Approved Divestiture 
Agent and Asahi (but not fees contingent on the price to be obtained 
for the Unsold Business); and 
(iv) 
if an agreement as to fees cannot be reached between the Approved 
Divestiture Agent and Asahi within 15 Business Days after the end of 
the Initial Sale Period, Asahi agrees to pay such fees as are directed 
by the ACCC; 
(c) 
not interfere with, or otherwise hinder, the Approved Divestiture Agent’s 
ability to carry out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent, 
including: 
(i) 
directing its personnel, including directors, contractors, managers, 
officers, employees and agents, to act in accordance with this 
clause 10;  
(ii) 
providing access to the facilities, sites or operations of the Unsold 
Business as required by the Approved Divestiture Agent; and 
(iii) 
providing to the Approved Divestiture Agent any information, 
documents or other assistance he or she considers necessary for 
carrying out his or her functions as the Approved Divestiture Agent 
or for reporting to or otherwise advising the ACCC; 
(d) within three Business Days after receiving notice from the ACCC pursuant to 
clause 6.5, Asahi must instruct the Approved Divestiture Agent to complete 
the divestiture of the Unsold Business to the Approved Purchaser in 
accordance with the documents approved by the ACCC pursuant to clause 
6.5; and 
(e) other than in accordance with clause 10.13(d) of this Undertaking, not 
instruct the Approved Divestiture Agent to divest the Unsold Business.  
Resignation, revocation or termination of the Approved Divestiture Agent 
10.14. Asahi must immediately notify the ACCC in the event that an Approved 
Divestiture Agent resigns or otherwise stops acting as an Approved Divestiture 
Agent before the completion of the divestiture of the Unsold Business.  
10.15. The ACCC may revoke an Approved Divestiture Agent’s status as the Approved 
Divestiture Agent if the ACCC becomes aware that any information provided to it 
was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading.  
10.16. The ACCC may approve any proposal by, or alternatively may direct, Asahi to 
terminate an Approved Divestiture Agent if in the ACCC's view the Approved 
Divestiture Agent acts inconsistently with the provisions of this Undertaking or the 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


23 
 
Approved Terms of Appointment. 
 
11. 
On Premise Supply Arrangements 
11.1. 
For a period of two years from the Control Date, Asahi will treat Divestiture 
Business Products as Asahi products for the purposes of any Supply 
Arrangement with an On Premise Venue. 
11.2. 
Without limiting clause 11.1, Asahi will: 
(a) for any On Premise Venue that has a Supply Arrangement which requires 
that Asahi receive a minimum or specified tap representation, recognise 
each tap which is used to supply a Divestiture Business Product as 
contributing to the Asahi tap share; 
(b) for any On Premise Venue that has a Supply Arrangement which requires a 
minimum or specified Asahi share of representation on shelves and / or 
refrigerator space, recognise each Divestiture Business Product as 
contributing to the Asahi representation; 
(c) 
to the extent that any Supply Arrangement prohibits an On Premise Venue 
from supplying products supplied by parties other than Asahi, recognise 
supply of Divestiture Business Products as Asahi products; and 
(d) to the extent that any Supply Arrangement requires an On Premise Venue to 
exclusively stock Asahi products, recognise supply of Divestiture Business 
Products as Asahi products. 
12. 
Notification of key dates and ACCC requests for information 
12.1. 
Asahi must notify the ACCC and each Undertaking Appointment in writing of:   
(a) the anticipated date of the Control Date, at least five Business Days before 
that date;  
(b) the anticipated date of the completion of the divestiture of a Divestiture 
Business or Unsold Business (as applicable), at least five Business Days 
before that date; 
(c) 
the occurrence of the Control Date, within one Business Day of that date; 
and 
(d) the occurrence of the completion of the divestiture of a Divestiture Business 
or Unsold Business (as applicable), within one Business Day of that date. 
12.2. 
The ACCC may direct Asahi in respect of its compliance with this Undertaking to, 
and Asahi must: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within Asahi's custody, 
power or control in the time and in the form requested by the ACCC; and/or 
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


24 
 
12.3. 
Any direction made by the ACCC under clause 12.2 will be notified to Asahi, in 
accordance with clause 19.2. 
12.4. 
In respect of Asahi's compliance with this Undertaking or an Undertaking 
Appointment’s compliance with its Approved Terms of Appointment, the ACCC 
may request any Undertaking Appointment to: 
(a) furnish information to the ACCC in the time and in the form requested by the 
ACCC; 
(b) produce documents and materials to the ACCC within the Undertaking 
Appointment's custody, power or control in the time and in the form 
requested by the ACCC; and/or  
(c) 
attend the ACCC at a time and place appointed by the ACCC to answer any 
questions the ACCC (its Commissioners, its staff or its agents) may have. 
12.5. 
Asahi will use its best endeavours to ensure that an Undertaking Appointment 
complies with any request from the ACCC in accordance with clause 12.4. 
12.6. 
Information furnished, documents and material produced or information given in 
response to any request or direction from the ACCC under this clause 12 may be 
used by the ACCC for any purpose consistent with the exercise of its statutory 
duties. 
12.7. 
The ACCC may in its discretion:  
(a) advise any Undertaking Appointment of any request made by it under this 
clause 12; and/or 
(b) provide copies to any Undertaking Appointment of any information 
furnished, documents and material produced or information given to it under 
this clause 12.  
12.8. 
Nothing in this clause 12 requires the provision of information or documents in 
respect of which Asahi has a claim of legal professional or other privilege. 
 
13. 
Disclosure of this Undertaking 
13.1. 
Asahi and the ACCC agree that Schedule 5 will remain confidential until after the 
completion of the divestiture of the Divestiture Businesses or Unsold Businesses.  
13.2. 
Asahi acknowledges that the ACCC may provide each Undertaking Appointment 
with a copy of this Undertaking which includes unredacted versions of Schedule 
5. 
13.3. 
Asahi acknowledges that the ACCC may, subject to clause 13.1:  
(a) make this Undertaking publicly available;  
(b) publish this Undertaking on its Public Section 87B Undertakings Register 
and Public Mergers Register; and 
(c) 
from time to time publicly refer to this Undertaking.  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


25 
 
13.4. 
Nothing in clause 13.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 13.1 prevents the ACCC from disclosing such information as is: 
(a) required by law; 
(b) permitted by section 155AAA of the Act; 
(c) 
necessary for the purpose of enforcement action under section 87B of the 
Act; or 
(d) necessary for the purpose of making such market inquiries as the ACCC 
thinks fit to assess the impact on competition arising in connection with this 
Undertaking. 
13.5. 
Nothing in clause 13.1 or the confidential parts of this Undertaking referred to in 
clause 13.1 prevents the ACCC from using the information contained in this 
Undertaking for any purpose consistent with its statutory functions and powers. 
 
14. 
Obligation to procure 
14.1. 
Where the performance of an obligation under this Undertaking requires a 
Related Body Corporate of Asahi to take or refrain from taking some action, Asahi 
will procure that Related Body Corporate to take or refrain from taking that action.   
 
15. 
No Derogation 
15.1. 
This Undertaking does not prevent the ACCC from taking enforcement action at 
any time whether during or after the period of this Undertaking in respect of any 
breach by Asahi of any term of this Undertaking. 
15.2. 
Nothing in this Undertaking is intended to restrict the right of the ACCC to take 
action under the Act for penalties or other remedies in the event that Asahi does 
not fully implement and/or perform its obligations under this Undertaking or in any 
other event where the ACCC decides to take action under the Act for penalties or 
other remedies. 
 
16. 
Change of Control  
16.1. 
In the event that a Change of Control is reasonably expected to occur, Asahi 
must:  
(a) notify the ACCC of this expectation as soon as practicable; and 
(b) only implement a Change of Control to another person or entity if that 
person or entity has given a section 87B undertaking to the ACCC that 
requires it to comply with the same obligations as are imposed on Asahi 
pursuant to this Undertaking, or on terms that are otherwise acceptable to 
the ACCC, unless the ACCC has notified Asahi in writing that a section 87B 
undertaking under this clause is not required. 
17. 
Costs 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


26 
 
17.1. 
Asahi must pay all of its own costs incurred in relation to this Undertaking. 
 
18. 
Jurisdiction  
18.1. 
Asahi irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the Federal Court of Australia in 
relation to this Undertaking. 
18.2. 
Unless and until notified in writing by Asahi to the ACCC of the appointment of 
another person as agent within Australia, Asahi appoints AHA, as its agent for the 
purposes of service of process in relation to this Undertaking.  
19. 
Notices 
Giving Notices 
19.1. 
Any notice or communication to the ACCC pursuant to this Undertaking must be 
sent to: 
Email address:  
mergers@accc.gov.au  
 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
With a copy sent to: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
 
Attention: Director, Remedies Unit 
 
Coordination and Strategy Branch 
 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
19.2. 
Any notice or communication to Asahi pursuant to this Undertaking must be sent 
to:  
Name:   
Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. 
Address:  
23-1, Azumabashi 1-Chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo, 130-8602 
Japan 
 
 
Email Address: taemin.park@asahigroup-holdings.com 
  
 
hidetoshi.maeda@asahigroup-holdings.com 
Attention:  
Taemin Park and Maeda Hidetoshi 
 
With a copy sent to: 
Name:   
Allen & Overy 
Address:  
Level 25, 85 Castlereagh Street, Sydney 
Email Address: aaron.kenavan@allenovery.com 
  
 
peter.mcdonald@allenovery.com 
Attention: 
Aaron Kenavan and Peter McDonald 
19.3. 
If sent by post, notices are taken to be received three Business Days after 
posting (or seven Business Days after posting if sent to or from a place outside 
Australia). 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


27 
 
19.4. 
If sent by email, notices are taken to be received at the time shown in the email 
as the time the email was sent.  
 
Change of contact details 
19.5. 
Asahi must notify the ACCC of a change to its contact details within three 
Business Days.   
19.6. 
Any notice or communication will be sent to the most recently advised contact 
details and subject to clauses 19.3 and 19.4, will be taken to be received.  
 
20. 
Defined terms and interpretation  
Definitions in the Dictionary 
20.1. 
 A term or expression starting with a capital letter: 
(a) which is defined in the Dictionary in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (Dictionary), has 
the meaning given to it in the Dictionary; or 
(b) which is defined in the Corporations Act, but is not defined in the Dictionary, 
has the meaning given to it in the Corporations Act. 
Interpretation 
20.2. 
Part 2 of Schedule 1 sets out rules of interpretation for this Undertaking. 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


28 
 
Executed as an Undertaking 
 
 
Executed by Asahi Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd ACN 135315767 pursuant to section 
127(1) of the Corporations Act 2001 by: 
 
Signature of director 
Signature of a director/company secretary  
Name of director (print) 
Name of director/company secretary (print) 
Date 
Date 
 
Executed for and on behalf of Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. acting by its duly appointed 
attorney under a power of attorney dated [Insert date] in the presence of: 
 
Signature of witness 
Signature of attorney  
Name of witness 
Name of attorney 
Date 
Date 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


29 
 
 
 
Accepted by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission pursuant 
to section 87B of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) on: 
 
 
Date 
 
and signed on behalf of the Commission: 
 
 
 
Chair 
 
 
 
Date 
  
 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


30 
 
Schedule 1 – Dictionary and interpretation  
1. 
Dictionary 
 
ABIH means ABI Australia Holding Pty Ltd (ACN 615 290 849). 
ACCC means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. 
Act means the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). 
Agreements means any contract, arrangement or understanding, including any contract, 
arrangement or understanding to renew, amend, vary or extend any contract, 
arrangement or understanding.  
Approved Audit Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in accordance with the 
terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent Auditor will audit and 
report upon compliance with this Undertaking. 
Approved Business Sale Agreement means the standard form contract for the 
divestiture of an Unsold Business which has been approved by the ACCC in accordance 
with the terms of this Undertaking.  
Approved Co-Packing Agreement means any agreement, for the provision of contract 
packing services by Asahi to an Approved Purchaser, approved by the ACCC in 
accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. For the avoidance of doubt, an Approved 
Co-Packing Agreement cannot be requested or required in relation to the Becks brands, 
as Asahi does not have the ability to manufacture Becks locally. 
Approved Divestiture Agent means the person approved by the ACCC and appointed 
under clause 10 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Auditor means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 9 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Independent Manager means the person approved by the ACCC and 
appointed under clause 8 of this Undertaking. 
Approved Marketing and Sale Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC in 
accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Divestiture Agent 
will market and effect the divestiture of an Unsold Business. 
Approved Purchaser means any person approved by the ACCC under clause 6 of this 
Undertaking. 
Approved Sale and Purchase Agreement means the contract approved by the ACCC 
in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Asahi will divest one or 
both of the Divestiture Businesses to the Approved Purchaser and Approved Purchaser 
will acquire one or both of the Divestiture Businesses from Asahi. 
Approved Separation and Management Plan means the plan approved by the ACCC 
in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking, by which the Approved Independent 
Manager will: 
a) 
separate the Divestiture Business from any business to be retained by 
Asahi; and  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


31 
 
b) 
manage and operate the Divestiture Business independently of Asahi 
and any retained business. 
Approved Transitional Supply Agreement means any agreement, for the supply of 
goods or services (other than Technical Assistance) by Asahi to the Approved Purchaser, 
approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 
Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement means any agreement, for 
the supply of Technical Assistance by Asahi to an Approved Purchaser, approved by the 
ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking.  
Approved Terms of Appointment means the terms of appointment for the Approved 
Independent Manager, Approved Independent Auditor or Approved Divestiture Agent, as 
applicable, as approved by the ACCC in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking. 
Asahi means the entity referred to in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking. 
Associated Entity has the meaning given by section 50AAA of the Corporations Act. 
Audit Report has the meaning given to it in clause 9.12 of this Undertaking. 
Beer Business means the assets listed under the heading Beer Business in Schedule 4. 
Beer Products means any beverage that for the purposes of sale is held out to be beer, 
and includes ale, lager, porter, wheat beer, stout and non-alcoholic beer. 
Business Day means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which banks are open 
for business generally in the Australian Capital Territory.  
Change of Control means: 
 
the assignment or other transfer of the legal or beneficial ownership of some or 
all of the share capital of Asahi to any other person or entity that may impact 
compliance with this Undertaking in its entirety; or 
 
the sale or transfer of any assets necessary, or which may be necessary, to 
enable Asahi to continue to comply with this Undertaking in its entirety. 
Cider Business means the assets listed under the heading Cider Business in Schedule 
4. 
Cider Products means any beverage that for the purposes of sale is held out to be cider, 
and includes cider based on apple, pear or any other fruit. 
Commencement Date means the date described in clause 3.1 of this Undertaking. 
Control Date means the date on which the Proposed Acquisition is completed.  
Consents means any Government Consents or Third Party Consents. 
Corporations Act means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). 
Divestiture Business means each of the businesses described in Schedule 4 to this 
Undertaking. 
Divestiture Business Products means each of the products supplied in Australia under 
the brands described in Schedule 4 to this Undertaking. 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


32 
 
Entities Connected has the meaning given by section 64B of the Corporations Act. 
Establishment Audit has the meaning given to it in clause 10.1(a) of this Undertaking. 
Government Consents means any consents from any government agency required for 
the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any assets, licences, permits, 
approval or contracts required for the operation of the Divestiture Business. 
Holding Company has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act.  
Initial Sale Period is defined in clause 1 of Confidential Schedule 5 to this Undertaking. 
Material Change means any change to the structure, attributes, extent or operations of 
the Divestiture Businesses or product or service sold by a Divestiture Business that may 
affect, or impact on, the competitiveness of the Divestiture Businesses. 
Material Contract means any Agreement that is necessary for the operation of the 
Divestiture Businesses.  
On Premise Venue means any venue located in Australia which is licenced to supply 
beer or cider products for on-premise consumption, including restaurants, pubs and 
clubs. 
Proposed Acquisition is defined in clause 2 of this Undertaking. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent means a person named in a Proposed Divestiture Notice. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 10.3 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Auditor means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Auditor Notice. 
Proposed Independent Auditor Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 9.2 of this 
Undertaking. 
Proposed Independent Manager means a person named in a Proposed Independent 
Manager Notice. 
Proposed Independent Manager Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 8.2 of 
this Undertaking. 
Proposed Purchaser means a person named in a Proposed Purchaser Notice. 
Proposed Purchaser Notice has the meaning given to it in clause 6.2 of this 
Undertaking.  
Public Mergers Register means the ACCC’s public register of merger clearances, 
available at www.accc.gov.au.   
Public Section 87B Undertakings Register means the ACCC’s public register of 
section 87B undertakings, available at www.accc.gov.au.  
Related Bodies Corporate has the meaning given to it by section 50 of the Corporations 
Act 2001 (Cth). 
Related Entities has the meaning given to it by section 9 of the Corporations Act 2001 
(Cth). 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


33 
 
Related Parties has the meaning given to it by section 228 of the Corporations Act 2001 
(Cth). 
Subsidiary has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act. 
Supply Arrangement means any provision in a written agreement between Asahi and 
any On Premise Venue which requires a minimum or specified level of representation of 
Asahi Beer Products or Cider Products within the venue (including, with respect to taps, 
shelf space or refrigerator space). 
Technical Assistance includes advising on technical knowledge documentation, 
supporting an Approved Purchaser on acquiring specific assets necessary for the 
ongoing conduct of the Divestiture Businesses, providing staff with suitable experience 
and skills to assist and/or advice on technical issues, assisting in training for the 
Approved Purchaser’s staff, and providing guidance on regulatory and legal aspects 
relating to the transfer of or application for licences.  
Third Party Consents means any Consent from any entity that is not a government 
agency required for the assignment, novation, sale, sub-licensing or transfer of any 
assets, licences, permits, approval or contracts required for the operation of the 
Divestiture Businesses. 
Transferred Personnel has the meaning given to it in clause 5.8 of this Undertaking. 
Undertaking is a reference to all provisions of this document, including its schedules and 
as varied from time to time under section 87B of the Act. 
Undertaking Appointment means the Approved Independent Manager, the Approved 
Independent Auditor or the Approved Divestiture Agent, as applicable. 
Undertaking Signatories has the meaning given to it in clause 1.1 of this Undertaking. 
Unsold Business has the meaning given to it in clause 10.1 of this Undertaking. 
 
2. 
Interpretation 
2.1 
In the interpretation of this Undertaking, the following provisions apply unless the 
context otherwise requires: 
(a) a reference to this Undertaking includes all of the provisions of this document 
including its schedules; 
(b) headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the 
interpretation of this Undertaking;  
(c) if the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this 
Undertaking is not a Business Day, the act, matter or thing must be done on 
the next Business Day;  
(d) a reference in this Undertaking to any law, legislation or legislative provision 
includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any 
subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or 
legislative provision;  
(e) a reference in this Undertaking to any company includes its Related Bodies 
Corporate; 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


34 
 
(f) a reference in this Undertaking to any agreement or document is to that 
agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced; 
(g) a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a 
clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this Undertaking; 
(h) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, association, body corporate or governmental 
agency; 
(i) where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, another part of speech 
or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a 
corresponding meaning; 
(j) a word which denotes the singular also denotes the plural, a word which 
denotes the plural also denotes the singular, and a reference to any gender 
also denotes the other genders; 
(k) a reference to the words 'such as', 'including', 'particularly' and similar 
expressions is to be construed without limitation; 
(l) a construction that would promote the purpose - or object - underlying the 
Undertaking (whether expressly stated or not) will be preferred to a 
construction that would not promote that purpose or object; 
(m) material not forming part of this Undertaking may be considered to: 
(i) confirm the meaning of a clause is the ordinary meaning conveyed by 
the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and the competition concerns intended to be addressed by the 
Undertaking and the clause in question; or 
(ii) determine the meaning of the clause when the ordinary meaning 
conveyed by the text of the clause, taking into account its context in the 
Undertaking and the purpose or object underlying the Undertaking, leads 
to a result that does not promote the purpose or object underlying the 
Undertaking; 
(n) in determining whether consideration should be given to any material in 
accordance with paragraph (m), or in considering any weight to be given to 
any such material, regard must be had, in addition to any other relevant 
matters, to the: 
(i) effect that reliance on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the 
clause would, have (taking into account its context in the Undertaking 
and whether that meaning promotes the purpose or object of the 
Undertaking); and 
(ii) need to ensure that the result of the Undertaking is to completely 
address any ACCC competition concerns; 
(o) the ACCC may authorise the ACCC Mergers Review Committee, a member 
of the ACCC or a member of the ACCC staff, to exercise a decision making 
function under this Undertaking on its behalf and that authorisation may be 
subject to any conditions which the ACCC may impose; 
(p) in performing its obligations under this Undertaking, Asahi will do everything 
reasonably within its power to ensure that its performance of those 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


35 
 
obligations is done in a manner which is consistent with promoting the 
purpose and object of this Undertaking; 
(q) a reference to: 
(i) a thing (including, but not limited to, a chose in action or other right) 
includes a part of that thing; 
(ii) a party includes its successors and permitted assigns; and 
(iii) a monetary amount is in Australian dollars. 
  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


36 
 
Schedule 2 – Proposed Purchaser Notice Form 
Please note in relation to information given on or in relation to this form, giving false or 
misleading information is a serious offence.   
The completed form with requested documents attached may be provided to the ACCC 
using the following method: 
Email  
Subject line:  
Proposed Purchaser Notice – Asahi/CUB 
Address: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
Attention: 
Executive General Manager - Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
 
With an email copy sent to: 
Address:  
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
Attention:  
Director, Remedies Unit, Merger Coordination and Strategy Branch, 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
1) In relation to the Proposed Purchaser, please provide the following information: 
(a) Name of the Proposed Purchaser: 
(b) Address: 
(c) Contact name: 
(d) Telephone number: 
(e) Other contact details: 
2) Please attach a submission containing the following information to this form: 
(a) a description of the business carried on by the Proposed Purchaser including 
the locations in which the Proposed Purchaser carries on its business. 
(b) details of the Proposed Purchaser’s experience in the relevant market/s. 
(c) the names of the [owner/s and the directors (delete any that do not apply)] of 
the Proposed Purchaser.  
(d) details of any of the following types of relationships between Asahi and the 
Proposed Purchaser or confirmation that no such relationship exists whether 
within Australia or outside of Australia: 
(i) Asahi and the Proposed Purchaser are Associated Entities;  
(ii) Asahi is an Entity Connected with the Proposed Purchaser; 
(iii) the Proposed Purchaser is an Entity Connected with Asahi; 
(iv) Asahi and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Entities; 
(v) Asahi and the Proposed Purchaser are Related Parties; 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


37 
 
(vi) any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Asahi is a 
Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with the Proposed 
Purchaser; 
(vii) Asahi and the Proposed Purchaser have a contractual relationship or 
had one within the past three years, other than those attached to this 
form; 
(viii) the Proposed Purchaser is a supplier of Asahi or has been in the past 
three years; 
(ix) Asahi is a supplier of the Proposed Purchaser or has been in the past 
three years; and 
(x) any other relationship between Asahi and the Proposed Purchaser that 
allows one to affect the business decisions of the other. 
(e) a section addressing the following factors, including any information adverse 
to the Proposed Purchaser, in the power, possession or control of Asahi: 
(i) whether the draft sale and purchase agreement is consistent with this 
Undertaking;  
(ii) whether the Proposed Purchaser will complete the transaction as 
contemplated by the draft sale and purchase agreement;  
(iii) whether the Proposed Purchaser is of good financial standing;  
(iv) whether the Proposed Purchaser has an intention to maintain and 
operate the Divestiture Business as a going concern; 
(v) whether the Proposed Purchaser is able to conduct the Divestiture 
Business effectively;  
(vi) whether the divestiture of the Divestiture Business to the Proposed 
Purchaser will address any competition concerns of the ACCC, including 
any relationships (including but not limited to shareholding interests, 
other proprietary interests, contracts, arrangements or understandings) 
between the Proposed Purchaser and other entities in a relevant market, 
and the likely long-term viability and competitiveness of the Divestiture 
Business under the ownership of the Proposed Purchaser; and 
(vii) any other matters that may affect the Proposed Purchaser’s capacity or 
ability to acquire or operate the Divestiture Business, such as 
outstanding legal action or disputes. 
3) Please also attach to this form: 
(a) the finalised draft of the sale and purchase agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking.  
(b) the finalised draft of any co-packing agreement for approval by the ACCC in 
accordance with this Undertaking. 
(c) the finalised draft of any transitional technical assistance agreement for 
approval by the ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking. 
(d) the finalised draft of any transitional supply agreement for approval by the 
ACCC in accordance with this Undertaking. 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


38 
 
(e) any documents required to support the information provided by Asahi 
pursuant to this form. 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


39 
 
Schedule 3 – Undertaking Appointment  
 
This form sets out the information required by the ACCC in relation to proposed 
appointment of the following positions under the Undertaking: 
 
Independent Manager; or 
 
Independent Auditor; or 
 
Divestiture Agent; 
(the Undertaking Appointments). 
This form is to be used for each of the above appointments. 
 
Please note in relation to information given pursuant to this form, giving false or 
misleading information is a serious offence.   
 
Method of Delivery to the ACCC 
The completed Undertaking Appointment form, along with the additional requested 
information is to be provided to the ACCC with the subject line (proposed [only include 
relevant Undertaking Appointment i.e. Independent Auditor/Divestiture 
Agent/Independent Manager] Form – Asahi/CUB to the below email addresses: 
1) mergers@accc.gov.au 
 
Attention: Executive General Manager 
 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
 
2) With a  copy sent to: 
mergersru@accc.gov.au 
 
Attention: Director  
 
 Remedies Unit 
 
Coordination and Strategy Branch 
 
Merger and Authorisation Review Division 
Information Required 
The ACCC requires the following information in order to assess a proposed Independent 
Auditor, Divestiture Agent or Independent Manager (i.e. the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment). 
1) Proposed Undertaking Appointment Details: 
(a) the name of the Proposed Undertaking Appointment; and 
(b) the name of the proposed Undertaking Appointment’s employer and contact 
details including: 
 
Address; 
 
Contact name; 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


40 
 
 
Telephone number; 
 
Other contact details. 
2) A submission containing the following information: 
(a) details of the [Undertaking Appointment]’s qualifications and experience 
relevant to his or her proposed role pursuant to the Undertaking 
(b) the names of the [owner/s and the directors (delete any that do not apply)] of 
[the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] 
(c) details of any of the following types of relationships between Asahi and [the 
Undertaking Appointment] or [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] or 
confirmation that no such relationship exists whether within Australia or 
outside of Australia: 
(i) Asahi and [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] are Associated 
Entities 
(ii) Asahi is an Entity Connected with [the Undertaking Appointment’s 
employer] 
(iii) [The Undertaking Appointment’s employer] is an Entity Connected 
with Asahi 
(iv) Asahi and [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] are Related 
Entities 
(v) Asahi and [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] are Related 
Parties 
(vi) any Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with Asahi is a 
Related Party, Related Entity or Entity Connected with [the 
Undertaking Appointment] 
(vii) Asahi and [the Undertaking Appointment] or [the Undertaking 
Appointment’s employer] have a contractual relationship or had one 
within the past three years, other than those attached to this form 
(viii) [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] is a supplier of Asahi or 
has been in the past three years 
(ix) Asahi is a supplier of the [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] 
or has been in the past three years, and 
(x) any other relationship between Asahi and [the Undertaking 
Appointment] or [the Undertaking Appointment’s employer] that 
allows one to affect the business decisions of the other, and 
(d) details of any existing or past contractual relationships between the 
Undertaking Appointment or the Undertaking Appointment's employer and 
the ACCC within the past three years. 
3) A document outlining the terms of appointment for the proposed Undertaking 
Appointment. This should identify the basis on which fees will be paid, including 
disclosure of any proposed performance-based fees.   
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


41 
 
Specific Information required for Undertaking Appointments 
The ACCC requires the below information in relation to the relevant Undertaking 
Appointment.  
Proposed Independent Auditor 
1) A finalised draft audit plan for the Divestiture Business, drafted by the Proposed 
Independent Auditor and outlining (to the extent possible) the Proposed Independent 
Auditor’s plans in regard to the establishment audit and the Audit Report. 
Proposed Divestiture Agent 
1) The finalised draft business sale agreement drafted by the Proposed Divestiture 
Agent in consultation with Asahi. The draft business sale agreement is to provide for 
the divestiture of the Unsold Business. 
2) The Proposed Divestiture Agent’s draft marketing and sale plan for the Unsold 
Business. 
Proposed Independent Manager  
1) The finalised draft separation and management plan for the Divestiture Business 
detailing the measures and timing to be implemented by Asahi and the Approved 
Independent Manager in order to fulfil Asahi’s and the Approved Independent 
Manager’s obligations pursuant to this Undertaking. This plan is to be drafted by the 
Proposed Independent Manager in consultation with Asahi to achieve the objectives 
of the Undertaking including: 
(a) the intended mode of operation of the Divestiture Business until completion 
of its divestiture; 
 
(b) separation measures to ensure the Divestiture Business is operated in a 
manner which is financially and operationally separate from Asahi, including 
the;  
(i) separation of the books and records of the Divestiture Business from 
those of Asahi;  
(ii) severance of the Divestiture Business’s participation in any private 
shared information technology networks, to the extent possible 
without compromising the viability of the Divestiture Business; 
(iii) implementation of specific electronic, information and physical 
security measures to maintain the confidentiality of any competitively 
sensitive information of the Divestiture Business; and 
(iv) severance of arrangements to share personnel and plant between 
the Divestiture Business and any businesses to be retained by 
Asahi, to the extent possible without compromising the viability of the 
Divestiture Business; 
(c) details of contracts for the provision of goods or services to the Divestiture 
Business which will expire after the completion of the divestiture of the 
Divestiture Business to the Approved Purchaser and the actions which will 
be taken to ensure they are replaced, renewed and/or renegotiated on 
commercial terms favourable to the Divestiture Business;  
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


42 
 
(d) personnel planning to maintain appropriate personnel levels and ensure that 
the Divestiture Business has access to all personnel necessary to operate 
the Divestiture Business;  
(e) any Material Changes to the Divestiture Business required in order to fulfil 
Asahi’s and the Approved Independent Manager’s obligations pursuant to 
the Undertaking; 
(f) the cooperation required from the Independent Manager with Asahi in 
relation to the divestiture of the Divestiture Business, including: 
(i) the activities to be conducted by the Independent Manager that are 
necessary for the effective operation of the Divestiture Business, 
having regard to the nature of the Divestiture Business (including the 
extent to which the Divestiture Business already has a management 
structure in place prior to the proposed acquisition that will be 
retained during the hold separate period);  
(ii) the method by which due diligence information, site visits and 
personnel interviews by and to prospective purchasers of the 
Divestiture Business will be managed;  
(iii) the method by which the Independent Manager and Asahi will 
preserve the confidentiality of the Divestiture Business’s 
competitively sensitive information from Asahi and its advisers 
throughout this process; and 
(iv) a protocol whereby the Approved Independent Manager can provide 
any information requested by Asahi without disclosing the details of 
the Divestiture Business’s competitively sensitive information to 
Asahi. 
 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


43 
 
Schedule 4 – Divestiture Businesses 
 
[Note: The organisation structure of the Divestiture Business is to comprise 4 people, 
reporting into the Independent Manager.  This includes: 
 
General Manager (reporting to the IM) – with responsibility for the commercial 
“front end” of the Divestiture Business, approving pricing and promotional 
strategies, liaising with CUB sales and demand planning functions under the 
TSA, directly interacting with customers as required, etc 
 
2x Marketing Managers, one for Cider one for Beer (reporting to the GM) – with 
responsibility for brand management, developing creative, trade marketing and 
sponsorship plans in collaboration with CUB under the TSA, approval of 
marketing decisions, liaising with ABI international brand teams, etc 
 
Finance & Operations Manager (reporting to the GM) – with responsibility for 
monitoring and managing the receipt of back office and contract manufacturing 
services under the TSA, and providing financial/accounting support to the 
Divestiture Business. 
This structure will manage the entire Divestment Business, but Asahi have also allocated 
the 4 roles between the Cider and Beer businesses below if they are sold separately. 
This operating model is sufficient for the Divestiture Business to operate as a separate 
and independent business, including monitoring and managing the TSA arrangements, 
and direct accountability and decision making in key commercial areas.   
This is similar to the arrangements which were put in place when CUB managed Peroni 
(acquired by Asahi) for a transitional period.] 
 
Cider Business 
 
Premises 
Access will be agreed as part of the Approved Transitional Supply 
Agreement or Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement or Approved Co-Packing Agreement. 
Inventory 
All inventory relating exclusively to the Bonamy;s, Little Green 
Cider and Strongbow brands(to the extent not provided under an 
Approved Co-Packing Agreement) in possession of the Cider 
Business as at completion of the divestiture, which may include 
products in one or more of the following categories:  
 
Finished goods 
 
Advertising and marketing materials 
Business 
Records 
All business records (including customer and vendor lists, and 
business, financial and legal records, books, documents, literature, 
files, information and materials) owned by CUB relating exclusively 
to the operation of the Cider Business.   
Employees 
Employees in the following roles: 
 
Head of Marketing 
 
Finance and Operations Manager 
Contracts 
 
Approved Co-Packing Agreement for applicable products 
 
Approved Transitional Supply Agreement for applicable 
products/services (and if required by the Approved Purchaser, 
an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement)  
[Note: All production and packaging, distribution and warehousing 
utilises equipment used in other parts of the business and 
therefore the business model to be sold involves an outsourced 
model through (a) the Approved Transitional Supply and / or 
Technical Assistance Agreement, including the delivery of sales, 
marketing and distribution functions (in many ways similar to the 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


44 
 
arrangement put in place when Asahi acquired Peroni from CUB) 
and (b) cider products being supplied under arm’s length contract 
manufacturing and packaging agreements, which is a common 
method of sourcing production for businesses within the industry] 
  
Intellectual 
Property Rights 
The following intellectual property rights:  
1. Business names:  
 
STRONGBOW CIDER COMPANY 
 
TASMANIAN CIDER COMPANY (which appears on 
the Bonamy’s label) 
2. Domain names:  
 
bonamys.com 
 
bonamys.com.au 
 
bonamyscider.com 
 
bonamyscider.com.au 
 
littlegreencider.com 
 
littlegreencider.com.au 
 
strongbow.com.au 
 
strongbowcider.com.au 
 
strongbowcricket.com.au 
 
strongbow.beer 
3. Trade Marks: Please see Schedule 6.  
4. Other 
All rights that CUB would hold immediately after the Control Date to the 
following for the applicable brands: 
 
Recipes 
 
Ingredient specifications 
 
Packaging specifications 
 
Brewing process specifications 
 
Packaging process specifications 
 
Product Specifications, including in-process 
specifications and final product specifications 
 
Quality assurance and approval processes 
 
 
 
 
 
Beer Business 
 
Premises 
Access will be agreed as part of the Approved Transitional Supply 
Agreement or Approved Transitional Technical Assistance 
Agreement or Approved Co-Packing Agreement. 
Inventory 
All inventory relating exclusively to the Stella Artois and Beck’s 
brands (to the extent not provided under an Approved Co-Packing 
Agreement) in possession of the Beer Business as at completion of 
the divestiture, which may include products in one or more of the 
following categories:  
 
Finished goods 
 
Advertising and marketing materials 
Business 
Records 
All business records (including customer and vendor lists, and 
business, financial and legal records, books, documents, literature, 
files, information and materials) owned by CUB relating exclusively 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


45 
 
to the operation of the Beer Business.   
Employees 
Employees in the following roles: 
 
General Manager 
 
Head of Marketing 
Contracts 
 
Brands Licence Agreement with Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV 
or a related entity for the applicable brands. 
 
Supply Agreement with Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV or a 
related entity for the applicable branded products. 
 
Approved Transitional Supply Agreement for applicable 
products/services (and if required by the Approved Purchaser, 
an Approved Transitional Technical Assistance Agreement)  
 
Approved Co-Packing Agreement for applicable products not 
supplied under the Supply Agreement with Anheuser-Busch 
InBev SA/NV. 
[Note: All production and packaging, distribution and warehousing 
utilises equipment used in other parts of the business and 
therefore the business model to be sold involves an outsourced 
model through (a) the Approved Transitional Supply and / or 
Technical Assistance Agreement, including the delivery of sales, 
marketing and distribution functions (in many ways similar to the 
arrangement put in place when Asahi acquired Peroni from CUB) 
and (b) imported beer products being supplied either directly from 
ABI on terms that are the same as those Asahi negotiated with ABI 
for the retained brands) or under arm’s length contract 
manufacturing and packaging agreements for products currently 
produced by CUB, which is a common method of sourcing 
production for businesses within the industry] 
 
Intellectual 
Property Rights 
The rights to the following conferred under the Brands Licence 
Agreement for the applicable Stella Artois and Beck’s brands: 
1. Domain names:  
 
Becksbeer.com.au 
 
Becksbier.com.au 
 
Stella-artois.com.au 
 
stellaartois.com.au 
 
stellaartoissupperclub.com 
 
stellaartoissupperclub.com.au 
2. Trade Marks: Please see Schedule 6.  
3. Other 
 
Recipes 
 
Ingredient specifications 
 
Packaging specifications 
 
Brewing process specifications 
 
Packaging process specifications 
 
Product Specifications, including in-process 
specifications and final product specifications 
 
Quality assurance and approval processes 
 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


46 
 
Confidential Schedule 5 
 
 
Initial Sale Period is the period commencing on the Control Date and ending on the 
same day that is [CONFIDENTIAL] later. 
 
 
 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


47 
 
Schedule 6 – Trade Marks 
 
1. 
Cider Business 
The trade marks below will be transferred to the relevant Approved Purchaser in 
connection with the Cider Business. 
Trade Mark 
Registration No. 
Owner 
LITTLE GREEN 
1739065 
CUB Pty Ltd 
1797202 
CUB Pty Ltd 
1799091 
CUB Pty Ltd 
AUGUSTE BONAMY 
1463241 
Cascade Brewery Company 
Pty Ltd 
BONAMY 
1463245 
Cascade Brewery Company 
Pty Ltd 
1798573 
Cascade Brewery Company 
Pty Ltd 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


48 
 
1798574 
Cascade Brewery Company 
Pty Ltd 
STRONGBOW 
222100 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
332499 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
332500 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
STRONGBOW 
384638 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
STRONGBOW WHITE 
620800 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
624138 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
STRONGBOW 
624139 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
STRONGBOW 
624143 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
625563 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


49 
 
625565 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
625626 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
WOLF WHISTLE 
FOLLOWED BY AN 
EXPLODING BOTTLE 
924027 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
START WITH A 
STRONGBOW 
976579 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
SPARK 
1270589 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1312465 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1312469 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1460481 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


50 
 
1506680 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1506681 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1611187 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


51 
 
1611188 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1611189 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1611190 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1611191 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1611192 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


52 
 
1611193 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
 
1611194 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1611195 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1669126 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1669127 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


53 
 
STRONGBOW 
1741654 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1931489 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1931619 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
1933333 
FBG Holdings (UK) Limited 
 
 
 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


54 
 
2. 
Beer Business 
Rights to the trade marks below are as conferred under the Brands Licence Agreement 
with Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV or a related entity for the applicable Stella Artois and 
Becks brands. 
Trade Mark 
Registration No. 
Owner 
STELLA ARTOIS 
318742 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
860470 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
STELLA 
869992 
 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A 
975866 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
975868 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


55 
 
975870 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
976242 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
976291 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
1106000 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


56 
 
1273035 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
1365999 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
STELLA ARTOIS 
1419762 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
1486333 
Newbelco SA/NV 
STELLA ARTOIS BUY A 
LADY A DRINK 
1734060 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
1826364 
Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
BECK'S 
BECK 
Beck's 
Beck 
516204 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


57 
 
600469 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
887356 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
887357 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
976735 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
976737 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


58 
 
976777 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
976804 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
976806 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
1221493 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
BECK'SPERIENCE 
1226761 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
1331997 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
BECK'S 
1476334 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking


59 
 
600470 
Brauerei Beck GmbH & Co. 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment C - Draft undertaking
