 
Page 1 of 20 
 
Statement of Issues 
12 December 2019 
 Asahi Group Holdings – proposed acquisition of Carlton & 
United Breweries  
Purpose 
1. 
Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd (Asahi) proposes to acquire Carlton & United 
Breweries (CUB), the Australian business of Anheuser Busch InBev SA/NV (AB 
InBev) (the proposed acquisition).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition,  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not necessarily represent 
a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
set out in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there is one ‘issue of concern’, one ‘issue that may raise 
concerns’ and two ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 2 of 20 
Issue of concern – significant consolidation in cider  
6. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of cider products in Australia. 
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is a market for the supply of cider in 
Australia, which is distinct from the supply of beer and other alcoholic products.  
8. 
Asahi has approximately 30-32 per cent of sales in this cider market and CUB 
has approximately 35-39 per cent of sales. Using the Herfindahl-Hirschman 
Index (HHI), a measure of market concentration, the ACCC estimates that post-
acquisition, HHI in the cider market would increase from approximately 2650 to 
approximately 5150 points, with the delta (change) in excess of 2450 points. The 
ACCC is generally likely to identify competition concerns when the post-merger 
HHI is greater than 2000, or less than 2000 with a delta greater than 100.1 
9. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that alternative cider brands do not compete as 
closely with Asahi and CUB as Asahi and CUB’s brands compete with each 
other, and that the threat of new entry or expansion will not provide a strong 
competitive constraint on a combined Asahi-CUB. Consequently, the ACCC 
considers that post-acquisition, there will be a lessening of competitive 
constraints in the market for the supply of cider in Australia. This is likely to lead 
to a worsening of market outcomes for consumers, for example, the potential for 
an increase in the price of Asahi and CUB cider brands relative to what would be 
likely if the proposed acquisition does not proceed. 
Issue that may raise concerns – removing Asahi as a vigorous competitor in 
beer 
10. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition may substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of beer products in Australia. 
11. 
The market for beer in Australia is already highly concentrated. In recent years, 
Asahi, a global beer company, appears to have emerged as a vigorous and 
effective competitor to the two major suppliers, CUB and Lion, particularly in 
relation to the supply of premium international and craft beers. The ACCC is 
concerned that the proposed acquisition may have the effect of removing the 
significant competitive constraint that Asahi apparently currently presents. The 
ACCC is also concerned that the potential for Asahi to expand its existing 
presence in Australia and pose an even stronger constraint on CUB and Lion 
would be removed if the proposed acquisition proceeds.  
Issue unlikely to raise concerns – bundling of alcoholic and non-alcoholic 
products 
12. 
Post-acquisition Asahi would be able to offer a large range of beverages - soft 
drink, beer, cider or spirits - to customers. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
there is insufficient demand for bundled offerings, therefore the risk of anti-
competitive foreclosure of smaller rivals is low. 
                                                 
 
1 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.14. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 3 of 20 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns – supply of spirits  
13. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of spirits in Australia. 
Making a submission 
14. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
whether beer and cider are in separate markets, 
 
the degree to which beer markets are segmented (for example, the extent 
to which there is a separate segment for premium international beer), 
 
the impact of increased consolidation in the cider market,  
 
the removal of Asahi’s competitive constraint - as a significant supplier of 
beer that is competing against CUB and Lion, 
 
the extent to which alternative suppliers of beer and cider products would 
impose a competitive constraint on the combined Asahi-CUB, and 
 
the height of barriers to entry or expansion into the supply of beer and 
cider products. 
15. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
16. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
22 January 2020. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Asahi/CUB - attention Robert Janissen / Georgia Zele. If you 
would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or in 
person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Robert Janissen on 02 6243 1387 or Georgia Zele on 02 9230 9103.  
17. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 19 March 2020, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at https://www.accc.gov.au/public-
registers/mergers-registers/public-informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
18. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 4 of 20 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
19. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed acquisition. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies further 
lines of inquiry.  
20. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
23 August 2019 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed acquisition 
12 December 2019 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
22 January 2020 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
19 March 2020 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
 
The parties 
21. 
Asahi and CUB primarily overlap in the supply of beer and cider products. Both 
also supply spirits products but the competitive overlap for these products is 
minimal.  
Asahi 
22. 
Asahi produces and supplies alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food products 
in Japan and internationally. In Australia, Asahi manufactures and supplies a 
range of international and domestic beer, cider and spirits brands, including:  
 
Beer – Asahi Super Dry, Asahi Soukai, Peroni, Cricketers Arms, Pilsner 
Urquell, Grolsch, Mountain Goat, Green Beacon and Two Suns. 
 
Cider – Somersby (under licence from Carlsberg). 
 
Spirits – Nikka Whisky, Vodka Cruiser, Woodstock Bourbon, Mist Wood 
Gin, Untold Spiced Rum, Tequila Blu, and Spicebox Whisky. 
23. 
Asahi also supplies a portfolio of non-alcoholic beverages. Asahi’s carbonated 
soft drink range includes Schweppes, Pepsi, Phoenix Organics, Mountain Dew, 
Solo, Sunkist, Alt and Passiona. Asahi also supplies a number of water, cordial, 
sports, juice and iced tea brands, including Cool Ridge, Frantelle, Voss, Cottees, 
Gatorade, Charlie’s, Spring Valley and Real Iced Tea Co.  


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 5 of 20 
24. 
Asahi’s main brewery is located in Laverton, Victoria. It also has the smaller 
Mountain Goat brewery in Richmond, Victoria. Asahi bottles and distributes 
Somersby cider products at the Laverton brewery. 
CUB 
25. 
CUB is owned by the Belgium-headquartered, multinational brewing company 
AB InBev. AB InBev acquired CUB from SABMiller in October 2016. CUB is a 
Victorian-headquartered Australian brewing company, which produces a range 
of beer, cider and spirit brands, including: 
 
Beer – Great Northern, Victoria Bitter, Carlton Draught, Carlton Dry, 
Cascade Premium, Pure Blonde, Matilda Bay, Fat Yak, Melbourne Bitter, 
Crown Lager, Pirate Life, 4 Pines, Foster’s, Reschs and Balter. CUB also 
imports or manufactures and then distributes a range of other beer brands 
under licence, including Goose Island, Corona, Stella Artois, Belle-vue, 
Hoegaarden, Leffe, Beck’s, Lowenbrau, Franziskaner, Spaten and 
Budweiser. 
 
Cider – Strongbow, Mercury, Bonamy’s, Little Green, Spring Cider Co, 
Dirty Granny and Pure Blonde Cider. CUB also manufactures and 
distributes Bulmers under licence from Heineken. 
 
Spirits – Cougar, Black Douglas, Lexington Hill, Karloff, Continental 
Liqueurs, Coyote and Prince Albert. 
26. 
On 16 September 2019, CUB announced that it had entered into an agreement 
to acquire Riot Wine Co, an Adelaide based seller of canned and kegged wines. 
27. 
Both beer and cider are produced at the CUB plants located at Abbotsford 
(Victoria), Yatala (Queensland) and Cascade (Hobart, Tasmania). The CUB 
plants located at 4 Pines (New South Wales) and Pirate Life (South Australia) 
produce beer but not cider. 
The proposed transaction 
28. 
On 19 July 2019, Asahi announced that it had entered into a Sale and Purchase 
Deed with AB InBev, to purchase CUB for A$16 billion, by way of an acquisition 
of shares.  
29. 
As part of the proposed acquisition, Asahi will acquire from CUB the right to 
supply and distribute AB InBev products in Australia. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 6 of 20 
Other industry participants 
Lion 
30. 
Lion Pty Limited (Lion) is a beverage and food company that operates in 
Australia and New Zealand, and a subsidiary of Japanese beverage company, 
Kirin.  
31. 
Lion produces and supplies a range of beer, wine, cider and ready to drink 
(RTD) products. Lion offers a large portfolio of beers, including XXXX, James 
Boag’s, Tooheys, Furphy, Iron Jack, Little Creatures, Hahn Super Dry, James 
Squire, Heineken, Guinness, Steinlager and Kirin. Lion also has cider brands 
including 5 Seeds, James Squire Orchard Crush and Kirin Cider. 
Coopers 
32. 
Coopers Brewery Ltd (Coopers) is based in South Australia and produces a 
range of beers, ciders, home brews and malt extracts.  
33. 
Coopers produces and distributes a number of beers, including Coopers, 
Carlsberg, Kronenbourg, Sapporo, Elephant Lager, Mythos and Fix Hellas. 
Coopers also distributes the Thatchers cider brand under licence.  
Coca-Cola Amatil 
34. 
Coca-Cola Amatil Limited (Coca-Cola Amatil) manufactures and supplies a 
range of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages in Australia and the Asia-Pacific 
region. 
35. 
Coca-Cola Amatil’s beer brands include Miller, Coors, Vonu, Yenda and Feral. 
Coca-Cola Amatil’s cider brands include Rekorderlig, Magners and Pressman’s. 
Craft brewers 
36. 
There are a significant number of independent craft brewers in Australia. Large 
craft brewers include Stone and Wood, Gage Roads Brewing Co, Colonial 
Brewing and Young Henrys. 
Private label products 
37. 
Major liquor retailers supply private label beer and cider products produced for 
them via contract brewing arrangements. Some retailers also have exclusive 
arrangements to sell international brands. 
38. 
Woolworths supplies a number of private label beer and cider brands. For beer 
these include John Boston, Sail & Anchor, Steersman and Tun Beer. For cider 
these include Castaway Cider. Woolworths also supplies a number of 
international branded beers including Hollandia and Oettinger.    
39. 
Coles supplies a number of private label beer and cider brands. For beer these 
include Lorry Boys, Maxx, Steamrail Beer, 3 Pub Circus, Hammer N Tongs, 
Uberbrau and Tinnies. For cider these include Steamrail Cider and Mr Finch. 
Coles also supplies a number of international beer brands including Henninger, 
Royal Dutch, Praga Premium Pilsner, Cantina, Radeberger and Parrotdog. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 7 of 20 
Table 1: Cider and beer brands 
Asahi 
Carlton & 
United 
Breweries 
Lion 
Coopers 
Coca-Cola 
Amatil 
Private label 
(examples)  
Cider 
• Somersby  
• Bonamy’s 
• Bulmers 
• Dirty Granny  
• Little Green 
• Mercury 
• Pure Blonde 
Cider 
• Spring Cider 
Co 
• Strongbow  
• 5 Seeds 
• James 
Squire  
• Kirin Cider 
• Pipsqueak 
• Thatchers 
Cider 
• Angry 
Orchard 
• Magners 
• Pressman’s 
cider 
• Rekorderlig 
• Castaway 
Cider  
• Mr Finch 
Cider 
• Renberg 
Swedish Cider 
• Steamrail  
Cider 
• Storm 
Brewing Co 
Apple Cider 
Beer 
Premium international beer 
• Asahi 
Soukai  
• Asahi Super 
Dry 
• Grolsch 
• Peroni  
• Pilsner  
Urquell 
 
 
• Beck’s 
• Belle-vue 
• Budweiser 
• Corona Extra  
• Corona 
Ligera  
• Franziskaner 
• Hoegaarden 
• Leffe 
• Lowenbrau 
• Negra 
Modelo 
• Pacifico Clara 
• Spaten 
• Stella Artois 
• Amstel 
• Birra Moretti 
• Guinness 
• Heineken 
• Kilkenny 
• Kirin 
• Steinlager 
• Carlsberg  
• Fix Hellas 
• Kronenbourg 
• Mythos 
• Sapporo 
• Coors 
• Fiji Bitter 
• Miller 
Genuine 
Draft 
• Samuel 
Adams 
• Vailima 
• Vonu 
 
 
 
 
 
• Hollandia 
• Oettinger  
• Überbräu 
• Royal Dutch 
Craft beer 
• Cricketers 
Arms 
• Mountain 
Goat 
• Green 
Beacon 
Brewing Co. 
 
• 4 Pines 
• Balter 
• Goose Island 
• Matilda Bay  
• Pirate Life  
• Yak Ales 
• Byron Bay 
• James 
Squire  
• Knappstein 
• Kosciuszko 
Pale Ale 
• Little 
Creatures 
• White 
Rabbit 
• Coopers 
• Feral 
Brewing Co. 
• Yenda 
 
• 3 Pub Circus 
• Balmain 
• John Boston 
• Lorry Boys 
• Sail & Anchor 
• Steamrail 
• Storm 
Brewing Co 
Other beer 
• Two Suns 
 
• Carlton 
Draught 
• Carlton Dry 
• Cascade 
Premium 
• Crown Lager  
• Foster’s   
• Great 
Northern 
• Melbourne 
Bitter  
• Pure Blonde 
• Reschs 
• Victoria Bitter 
• Emu 
• Furphy 
• Hahn 
• Iron Jack 
• James 
Boag’s 
• Swan 
• Tooheys 
• West End 
Draught 
• XXXX 
 
• Coopers  
• Dr Tim’s 
 
• Alehouse 
• Miller Chill 
 
• Bluey 
• Hammer ‘N’ 
Tongs 
• Maxx  
• Steersman 
• Tun 
 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 8 of 20 
Industry background 
40. 
Retailers are generally described as either ‘on- premise’ (for example, pubs, 
restaurants) or ‘off-premise’ (for example, supermarkets, bottle shops), 
according to whether or not alcohol is consumed at the place of sale.  
41. 
Consumers generally do not purchase kegs for consumption off-premise, so off-
premise retailers focus on selling packaged alcohol (bottles/cans), whereas on-
premise venues sell alcohol in both bottles/cans and/or kegs.  
42. 
In general, the same beer and cider products are used for packaged alcohol and 
in kegs.   
Future with and without the acquisition  
43. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
44. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers that 
Asahi would continue to operate independently in the future if the proposed 
acquisition does not proceed. This is discussed in further detail below. 
Market definition 
45. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets will be affected by the 
proposed acquisition is to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then considers 
other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what other 
products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant source of 
constraint on the merged entity. 
46. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant markets are:  
 
the supply of cider in Australia, 
 
the supply of beer in Australia, 
 
the supply of non-alcoholic products in Australia, and 
 
the supply of spirits in Australia.  
Cider product market 
47. 
In terms of demand-side substitutability, market feedback suggests that while 
some consumers purchase both cider and other types of alcohol such as beer, 
wine or RTDs, the majority of consumers do not view them as substitutes.   


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 9 of 20 
48. 
On the supply-side, while an existing beer producer may be able to use some of 
the same facilities at its disposal to also produce cider, there are other factors 
likely to limit its ability to quickly and profitably commence supplying cider 
products. In this respect, the ACCC notes there are likely to be considerable time 
and investment costs required to establish a successful brand to profitably 
supply a cider product.  
49. 
Market participants have also indicated that there are differences in cider and 
beer production processes. Cider has different inputs and production tanks may 
not easily be switched, or at a minimum, require additional cleaning procedures 
to switch between beer and cider production. However, market participants have 
noted that brewers can use the same bottling or canning packaging line for both 
beer and cider products. 
50. 
The ACCC considers that supply of cider in both keg and bottled/canned form 
are likely to be in the same market, as most producers produce in both forms. 
51. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that for the purposes of analysing this proposed 
acquisition, cider should be considered a separate product market. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
distinguishing the cider market. In particular, market participants may wish to comment 
on: 
 
Consumer behaviour across purchasing and consuming cider and other alcoholic 
beverages. 
 
The ease or difficulty of switching production between cider and beer. 
 
The ease or difficulty of establishing a successful cider brand for a beer company. 
 
The differences between kegs and packaged cider. 
Beer categories 
52. 
The ACCC is considering whether there are separate markets for different types 
of beer (such as ‘premium international’ and ‘craft’ beers); or whether all beer is 
supplied in the same market.  
53. 
Information provided to the ACCC suggests that most industry participants 
categorise beer brands into different segments (such as ‘premium international’; 
‘classic’; and ‘craft’ beers), and assess and compare the performance of beer 
brands against others within the same segment.  
a. ‘Premium international’ beer brands include Corona (CUB), Stella Artois 
(CUB), Asahi (Asahi), Peroni (Asahi) and Heineken (Lion). 
b. ‘Classic’ beer brands include Carlton Draught (CUB), and Tooheys New 
(Lion). 
c. ‘Craft’ beer brands include 4 Pines (CUB), James Squire (Lion), Green 
Beacon (Asahi), Stone and Wood, Young Henrys, Gage Roads and 
Colonial Brewing. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 10 of 20 
54. 
The ACCC is considering whether there are separate ‘premium international’; 
‘classic’ and ‘craft’ beer markets. The segmentation of beer brands by industry 
participants suggests that the relevant markets may be for the supply of 
particular beer segments, rather than a broader market encompassing all types 
of beer. Asahi’s current portfolio of beers is focused on the ‘premium 
international’ and ‘craft’ beer segments. 
55. 
On the demand-side, the ACCC is considering the level of demand-side 
substitution across brands in a particular beer segment against the level of 
demand-side substitution across brands in different segments.  
56. 
On the supply-side, it is likely that a producer of ‘classic’ beer could commence 
supplying ‘premium international’ or ‘craft’ beer with little capital investment. The 
ACCC understands that ‘classic’, ‘premium international’ and ‘craft’ beer can be 
supplied from the same brewery. However, the time and sunk investment in 
branding required to profitably produce a new product in a new category may 
represent a significant barrier to entry or expansion in the relevant market(s).   
The ACCC invites comments on its preliminary view that there is a market for beer that 
captures all categories of beer. In particular, market participants may wish to comment 
on: 
 
The differences between classic, premium international and craft beer brands. 
 
Consumer behaviour across different beer segments and brands. 
 
The ease or difficulty of switching supply between different beer segments. 
 
The differences between kegs and packaged beer. 
Non-alcoholic products 
57. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that non-alcoholic products constitute a separate 
market for the purposes of analysing this proposed acquisition.  
Spirits 
58. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that spirits constitute a separate market for the 
purposes of analysing this proposed acquisition. 
Issue of concern: significant consolidation of cider brands 
59. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of cider in Australia. 
The proposed acquisition would reduce the number of major suppliers of cider 
brands in Australia, resulting in a significant consolidation of cider brands. In 
turn, this is likely to lead to a lessening of competitive constraints in the market 
for the supply of cider in Australia; and a worsening of market outcomes for 
consumers (for example, an increase in the price of Asahi and CUB cider 
brands) relative to what would be likely if the proposed acquisition does not 
proceed.  


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 11 of 20 
Market concentration 
60. 
As stated in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines, market concentration refers to the 
number and size of participants in the market. It provides a snapshot of market 
structure as well as an approximation of the size of the merger parties, which 
can assist when considering the other merger factors. The ACCC typically 
measures concentration with reference to market shares, concentration ratios 
and the HHI.2 
61. 
The proposed acquisition will result in the consolidation of the two largest cider 
suppliers in Australia, with Asahi having approximately 30-32 per cent share and 
CUB having approximately 35-39 per cent share of the market. The next largest 
cider suppliers are Coca-Cola Amatil and Lion, each with approximately 5-10 per 
cent share. Post-acquisition, the combined entity will control most major cider 
brands by volume in Australia, with a market share estimate of approximately 65-
70 per cent.  
62. 
As part of its overall assessment of a merger, the ACCC will take into account 
the HHI, as a preliminary indicator of the likelihood that the merger will raise 
competition concerns requiring more extensive analysis. The ACCC will 
generally be more likely to identify horizontal competition concerns when the 
post-merger HHI is greater than 2000, or less than 2000 with a delta greater than 
100.3 The ACCC estimates that post-acquisition, HHI in the cider market would 
increase from approximately 2650 to approximately 5150 points, with the delta in 
excess of 2450 points. 
Removal of Asahi and CUB as each other’s closest competitors in cider 
63. 
Market feedback indicates that Asahi’s Somersby brand is the strongest 
performing cider, followed by the CUB cider brands, particularly Strongbow, 
Bulmers and Mercury. The ACCC considers that Asahi and CUB are likely to be 
each other’s closest competitors in the supply of cider.  
64. 
Many market participants have indicated that Asahi’s Somersby and CUB’s 
Strongbow cider products are ‘must-haves’ for both on and off-premise retailers. 
Customers have expressed concern that post-acquisition the two ‘must-have’ 
brands would be controlled by the same entity. 
65. 
Market feedback and information considered by the ACCC indicates that the 
cider brands from Lion (for example, 5 Seeds), Coca-Cola Amatil (for example, 
Rekorderlig), craft and independent brewers, and private label products are not 
as close competitors as the Asahi and CUB brands.  
66. 
Market inquiries suggest that other suppliers of cider have a significantly smaller 
presence than the major incumbents, Asahi and CUB, reflecting the difficulty of 
introducing new ciders and winning share from established brands. For example, 
Somersby was developed in 2008 and is a global cider brand in more than 50 
                                                 
 
2 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraphs 7.6-7.16. 
3 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.14. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 12 of 20 
countries;4 while Strongbow has been sold in Australia since 1970 and is also a 
global cider brand.5 
67. 
While there are some craft cider brewers (for example, Bilpin Cider, Coldstream, 
Hills Cider, Sunshack, Young Henrys) that may compete to some extent with 
Asahi and CUB, the ACCC considers that most craft cider brewers are unlikely to 
impose as strong a competitive constraint on the Asahi and CUB brands as each 
applies to the other. This is because craft brewers tend to operate on a smaller 
scale due to the limited capacity of their breweries and tend to be regionally 
focussed. 
68. 
Private label cider brands (for example, those offered by Woolworths and Coles) 
have a growing presence in Australia, but most market participants consider 
private label cider brands do not compete closely with Asahi and CUB’s cider 
brands. Market participants have indicated that while private label products are 
generally priced low relative to other cider products, they do not have mass 
market appeal and only have limited consumer brand awareness. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
69. 
While small-scale new entry (or entry into cider by an existing beer producer) 
appears likely to continue, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are 
significant barriers to timely and profitable entry or expansion on a scale 
sufficient to constrain a combined Asahi-CUB. These barriers include: 
a. capital requirements, such as the capital required to construct a large 
brewery or expand capacity at an existing brewery, 
b. high sunk costs, such as marketing and advertising, to build a successful 
brand, 
c. the time required to build a successful and reputable brand,  
d. access to on-premise taps to build a successful brand, and 
e. achieving the scale and distribution necessary to supply product at 
competitive prices. 
70. 
The emergence of contract brewing has lowered barriers to entry and facilitated 
the expansion of smaller players to some extent, by providing potential suppliers 
with access to high quality equipment without the need to make as substantial a 
level of upfront capital investment. However, the other barriers mentioned above 
remain. 
71. 
Additionally, the incentive to enter and expand in the cider market is likely to 
have reduced in recent years due to the decline in sales of cider products (cider 
consumption has declined by 9 per cent during the 2017-2018 period).6 The 
ACCC is not aware of any recent medium to large-scale entry or expansion in 
Australia for cider products. 
                                                 
 
4 Somersby website, https://www.somersby.com/en/homepage. 
5 Strongbow website, https://www.strongbow.com.au/pages/about. 
6 Australian Bureau of Statistics, ‘4307.0.55.001 - Apparent Consumption of Alcohol, Australia, 2017-18’, 
Issue released 9 September 2019 at https://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/mf/4307.0.55.001/. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 13 of 20 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
72. 
In summary, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is 
likely to substantially lessen competition in the cider market.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the issues outlined in 
relation to cider. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following:  
 
Closeness of competition between the Asahi and CUB cider brands and strength of 
the brands of other cider suppliers. 
 
Whether there are ‘must have’ cider brands for off-premise and on-premise 
venues. 
 
The barriers to entry and expansion in cider, in particular the likely timeframe, 
capital requirements, marketing and advertising costs. 
 
Likelihood of new entry or expansion in cider despite the cider market being in 
decline. 
Issue that may raise concerns: removing Asahi as a 
vigorous competitor in beer 
73. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of beer in Australia. The beer market is already 
highly concentrated and in recent years Asahi appears to have emerged as a 
vigorous and effective competitor in the supply of beer, imparting significant 
competitive tension on CUB and Lion.  
74. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition may change Asahi’s 
incentives to use its products to compete against brands presently supplied by 
CUB and Lion; and remove the apparent constraint presently posed on the 
supply of CUB products by the risk of a loss of sales to Asahi brands. In 
particular, the proposed acquisition may result in the loss of competition between 
Asahi’s premium international brands and CUB’s premium international brands.  
Market shares 
75. 
As noted above, the ACCC considers that the relevant market for assessing the 
competition effects of the proposed acquisition is the national market for the 
supply of beer.  
76. 
The beer market is already highly concentrated, with CUB and Lion accounting 
for approximately 80 per cent of sales in the market. CUB is currently the largest 
supplier of beer in Australia having approximately 45 per cent of beer sales in 
Australia, followed by Lion having approximately 35 per cent.  
77. 
Following the two major suppliers, Coopers has a share of approximately 5-7 per 
cent of beer sales; while Asahi has a share of approximately 3.5 per cent and 
Coca-Cola Amatil has a share of approximately 1-2 per cent. The share of 
remaining beer sales is relatively fragmented, with a large number of craft 
brewers having shares of no more than 0.5-1 per cent each.  


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 14 of 20 
78. 
The proposed acquisition would result in the consolidation of the first and fourth 
largest suppliers of beer in Australia. 
Changing Asahi’s incentives to behave as a vigorous and effective competitor 
79. 
As outlined above, Asahi’s beer market share is substantially smaller than that of 
CUB and Lion. However, the market for beer is already highly concentrated; and 
the proposed acquisition would lead to a further significant increase in 
concentration in this market. In this respect, the ACCC estimates that post-
acquisition, HHI in beer would increase from approximately 3350-3500 to 
approximately 3650-3850 points (with the delta of 300-350 points). As noted 
above, the ACCC will generally be more likely to identify horizontal competition 
concerns when the post-merger HHI is greater than 2000, or less than 2000 with 
a delta greater than 100.7 In this instance, the proposed acquisition will result in 
both a post-acquisition HHI that is substantially greater than 2000; and a delta 
well in excess of 100. 
80. 
Even where an acquisition leads to a relatively small increase in market 
concentration, it can still lead to a substantial lessening of competition if the 
acquisition involves a vigorous and effective competitor. This is because, in 
some cases, the desire for small market participants to expand their share of a 
market can significantly influence the intensity or quality of competition in that 
market.  
81. 
Vigorous and effective competitors will sometimes drive significant aspects of 
competition, such as pricing, innovation or product development, even though 
their own market share may be modest. These firms tend to be less predictable 
in their behaviour and deliver benefits to consumers beyond their own immediate 
supply, by forcing other market participants to deliver better and cheaper 
products. They also tend to undermine attempts to coordinate the exercise of 
market power.8 
82. 
An acquisition that changes the incentives of a vigorous and effective competitor 
may therefore remove one of the most effective competitive constraints on 
market participants and thereby result in a substantial lessening of competition.9 
In these situations, the removal of a small participant from a market may have an 
impact on competition that is disproportionately large compared to its market 
share, and this could amount to a substantial lessening of competition.  
83. 
Asahi is a global beer company and some market participants have noted that 
while Asahi is currently smaller in market share terms than CUB and Lion in 
Australia, it is well resourced to compete vigorously and effectively with its larger 
rivals. These market participants also note that recent behaviour by Asahi 
suggests it has been committed to growing its Australian operations. In 
particular, in the on-premise channel, some market participants have expressed 
that Asahi is currently a key competitor for taps that are not contracted to CUB or 
Lion, and is offering favourable trading terms to increase sales.  
                                                 
 
7 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.14. 
8 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.56. 
9 ACCC, Merger Guidelines 2008 (updated 2017), paragraph 7.57. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 15 of 20 
84. 
The ACCC is concerned that removing the competitive tension that Asahi 
appears to impose on the two large incumbent brewers may lead to higher 
prices, less favourable trading terms for off-premise retailers and on-premise 
venues, and a less competitive market.  
Removal of potential future expansion by Asahi 
85. 
The ACCC applies a forward looking test when considering the likely effect of the 
proposed acquisition on competition (see earlier section regarding future with 
and without section). The ACCC compares the likely future with the acquisition to 
the likely future without the acquisition. While the current situation can be 
relevant to, or in some cases the same as, the likely future without the merger, 
this is not necessarily the case. Therefore the ACCC is considering not only the 
competitive presence that Asahi has now, but also the possibility of future 
expansion if the proposed acquisition does not proceed.  
86. 
As noted in the previous section, the ACCC considers that Asahi appears to be a 
vigorous and effective competitor in the beer market. Asahi also appears to 
impose a competitive constraint on both CUB and Lion with the effect that if they 
were to provide less desirable terms for their products, they would risk losing 
customers (and market share) to Asahi. Asahi is a global beer company and the 
threat of Asahi expanding in Australia is likely to provide a significant competitive 
constraint on the behaviour of CUB and Lion presently (and in a future without 
the proposed acquisition) even if Asahi has not (and does not) expand its share 
of sales in the market. 
87. 
The ACCC understands that in the absence of the proposed acquisition, Asahi 
will continue to operate independently and compete with CUB and Lion. For 
example, in September 2019, Asahi launched its first easy drinking beer (Two 
Suns). The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will remove the 
competitive constraint that Asahi apparently currently imposes, as well as the 
possibility of Asahi becoming an even more significant competitor to CUB and 
Lion in the beer market. Specifically, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition may remove the potential for a third significant supplier of beer to 
expand its existing presence in Australia and compete directly with CUB and 
Lion.  
88. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Asahi’s position as a meaningful beer 
competitor that appears to constrain CUB and Lion will be difficult to replicate. 
The ACCC is concerned that if Asahi’s incentive to behave as a vigorous and 
effective competitor is removed, a new entrant or expanding business may be 
unlikely to replicate this competitive presence. The ACCC understands that 
brand strength and marketing spend to promote brand awareness is extremely 
important, such that other competitors with established distribution networks 
have still faced difficulties in establishing successful brands.  
Other suppliers may not constrain a combined Asahi-CUB 
89. 
Based on feedback from market inquiries, the ACCC is concerned that if the 
proposed acquisition proceeds and Asahi is no longer competing independently 
against CUB and Lion, other suppliers of beer may not be able to impose the 
same level of constraint on the combined entity and Lion, as Asahi presently 
appears to impose on CUB and Lion (and would be expected to impose in a 
future without the proposed acquisition). Of all the current market participants, 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 16 of 20 
Asahi is likely to be the most able to rapidly and profitably expand to constrain 
CUB and Lion if they were to lower the competitiveness of their offerings. 
90. 
Coopers and Coca-Cola Amatil are also present in the beer market, but market 
feedback suggests that Asahi has a stronger portfolio of brands and is 
significantly more active in growing its share of beer sales through relationships 
with retailers and venues, and attractive trading terms. 
91. 
Craft brewers may be able to introduce new brands, but they tend to operate on 
a smaller scale due to the limited capacity of their breweries and tend to be 
regionally focussed. By way of comparison, each of CUB and Lion have 
production capacities that are at least 100 times the capacity and scale of a large 
craft brewer. Some craft brewers have built up their presence in particular 
regional areas (for example, Stone and Wood, Gage Roads, Colonial Brewing 
and Young Henrys) and may therefore provide some competitive constraint on a 
combined Asahi-CUB in the regions they are focused on.  
92. 
However, the ACCC considers that most craft brewers would be unlikely to 
impose as effective a competitive constraint on the combined entity and Lion as 
Asahi acting independently is able to do, given the significant and national scale 
of its business. Further, the ACCC notes that some market participants have 
expressed that craft brewers tend to enter and build up their brand before being 
acquired by the large brewers, Lion, CUB and Asahi. 
93. 
Private label beer brands (for example, those offered by Woolworths and Coles) 
have a growing presence in the market, but the market share of private label 
beer is significantly smaller as compared to private label wine and private label 
spirits. Private label beers tend to be lower-priced and also tend to be limited to 
sales in the off-premise channel. Additionally, market participants consider that 
the private label brands do not compete closely with Asahi and CUB’s beer 
brands as they are regarded as lower quality products and primarily attract price-
conscious customers.  
Closeness of competition between brands in premium international segment 
94. 
As part of the proposed acquisition, Asahi will acquire the right to supply and 
distribute AB InBev products in Australia. AB InBev has many overseas brands 
(such as Patagonia, Skol, Alexander Keith’s and Camden Town Brewery) that 
are not currently marketed in Australia. It also owns popular beer brands 
currently distributed in Australia by CUB, including Corona and Stella Artois.  
95. 
The ACCC considers that Asahi’s brands compete closely with AB InBev brands, 
particularly within the premium international beer segment. For instance, the 
ACCC’s market inquiries suggest AB InBev’s Corona and Stella Artois brands 
compete closely with other premium international beer brands including 
Heineken and Asahi’s Asahi and Peroni brands. As a result, the ACCC considers 
that Asahi’s strength in the premium international beer segment gives it a strong 
basis to compete with and constrain the major incumbents, CUB and Lion.  
Imports may not constrain a combined Asahi-CUB 
96. 
Importers of overseas brands would be likely to face significant obstacles to 
expansion and entering the Australian beer market, including sunk costs to build 
brand awareness in Australia. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 17 of 20 
97. 
Market inquiries have indicated that as the Australian beer market is already 
highly saturated, although there are many overseas beer brands that are not in 
Australia, these brands would need to invest significant marketing and 
advertising costs to establish a presence in the Australian beer market. Market 
inquiries have also indicated that the most popular overseas beer brands are 
already supplied in Australia in some form, whether it is through a producer, 
distributor or retailer. For example, while Heineken and Carlsberg are both large 
global groups with multiple beer brands, some of their products including their 
headline Heineken and Carlsberg brands are already distributed in Australia 
through Lion and Coopers, respectively. 
98. 
As many international brands are already supplied or distributed in Australia 
through local producers or retailers, and there are significant obstacles to other 
international brands entering the Australian beer market, the ACCC does not 
consider that imports would be likely to be a significant constraint on the 
combined entity. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
99. 
As noted above in the discussion for cider, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
there are significant barriers to timely and profitable entry or expansion on a 
scale sufficient to constrain a combined Asahi-CUB. These barriers include: 
a. capital requirements, such as the capital required to construct a large 
brewery or expand capacity at an existing brewery, 
b. high sunk costs, such as marketing and advertising, to build a successful 
brand, 
c. the time required to build a successful and reputable brand,  
d. access to on-premise taps to build a successful brand, and 
e. achieving the scale and distribution necessary to supply product at 
competitive prices. 
100. Additionally, market participants have expressed that it is important to access 
on-premise taps for a successful launch of even a small-scale brand, and that 
tap access can be difficult. Products on tap attract more volume (and visibility) 
than packaged fridge products. Market participants have indicated that post-
acquisition, craft and independent brewers may face greater difficulties 
accessing taps at on-premise venues, because the combined entity will likely 
have an even broader range of beer and cider brands to cover a greater number 
of the available taps.  
101. While there is evidence of new and regular craft brewer entry, the ACCC is not 
aware of any recent medium to large-scale entry or expansion in Australia for 
beer products, of a similar scale to Asahi’s current operations. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 18 of 20 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
102. In summary, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may 
substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of beer in Australia, 
by changing the incentives of Asahi to compete directly with the large brewers, 
CUB and Lion. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the issues outlined in 
relation the beer market. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
following:  
 
Whether Asahi is a vigorous and effective competitor to CUB (and Lion) in the beer 
market. 
 
Whether the possibility of future expansion by Asahi imposes constraints on the 
conduct of CUB and Lion. 
 
The likely effects of Asahi’s removal as a standalone competitor to CUB and Lion. 
 
The impact of Asahi acquiring a licence to distribute AB InBev’s products in 
Australia. 
 
Strength of the brands of other beer suppliers, including imports and private label. 
 
Performance and availability of craft beer brands. 
 
The barriers to entry and expansion in beer, in particular the likely timeframe, 
capital requirements, marketing and advertising costs. 
 
Likelihood of medium to large scale new entry or expansion of beer products. 
 
Access to on-premise taps. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: bundling of alcoholic and 
non-alcoholic products 
103. Asahi already has a broad beverage portfolio. Asahi currently supplies cider, 
beer and spirits, and through Asahi Lifestyle Beverages (formerly Schweppes 
Australia) also supplies a number of branded non-alcoholic beverages. The 
proposed acquisition would increase Asahi’s beer, cider and spirit ranges.  
104. Some market participants have expressed concerns that post-acquisition, the 
combined entity could leverage its dominant position in cider (and potentially 
premium international beer) to bundle the supply of cider, beer, spirits and/or 
non-alcoholic beverages in a way that will lessen competition. It has also been 
noted that CUB’s recent expansion into the supply of wine will further enhance 
the combined entity’s ability to provide a unique bundled offering.  
105. The ACCC would be concerned if the proposed acquisition allowed Asahi to alter 
its product offerings in a way that forecloses its rivals and reduces competition. 
For example whether, as a result of the acquisition, the combined entity will have 
the ability to foreclose smaller suppliers that are focused on single product 
categories.  


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 19 of 20 
106. The ACCC considers that while the combined entity would be able to offer a 
large range of beverages to customers, our investigation to date suggests there 
is insufficient demand for bundled offerings such that the risk of anti-competitive 
foreclosure of smaller rivals is low. We understand that some on-premise venues 
and off-premise retailers obtain alcoholic beverages as part of product bundles, 
but market participants have not suggested that this practice is the norm. In the 
case of festival and stadium contracts, market participants have advised that 
there are generally separate tendering processes for different types of alcoholic 
beverages. 
107. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
reduce competition in this way because a combined Asahi-CUB will likely 
continue to be constrained by rivals. While soft drinks, beer, cider, spirits and 
wine are ‘must have’ products for pubs, they can be readily sourced from other 
channels and suppliers. Market participants have advised that competitors such 
as Lion and Coca-Cola Amatil have alcoholic and non-alcoholic brands that are 
important for sales. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants about its preliminary views on 
whether or not a combined Asahi-CUB will be able to supply a unique bundled offering 
and reduce competition by foreclosing other suppliers. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns: supply of spirits 
108. Both Asahi and CUB also supply some spirits but the overlap for these products 
is minimal. A combined Asahi-CUB will only have a combined share of 
approximately 2.5-4 per cent of total spirits. 
109. Market feedback also indicated that a combined Asahi-CUB would not have a 
significant share of brands for any particular spirits category (for example, vodka, 
bourbon, gin, tequila). Other spirits suppliers such as Diageo, Beam Suntory, 
Pernod Ricard, Campari, Brown-Forman and Bacardi-Martini would continue to 
strongly compete against a combined Asahi-CUB in the supply of sprits. 
110. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of spirits products in Australia. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants about its preliminary views on 
whether or not the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition 
in the supply of spirits. 
ACCC's future steps 
111. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 22 January 2020 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
112. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 


Asahi – proposed acquisition of CUB 
 
Page 20 of 20 
113. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 19 March 2020. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose 
of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement to explain its final view. 
