 
 
 
 
 
26 November 2008 
 
Statement of Issues — Woolworths Limited - proposed 
acquisition of a supermarket lease in Wallaroo, South 
Australia.  
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed acquisition of a 
supermarket lease by Woolworths Limited (proposed acquisition). 
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The closing date for further 
market inquiries is 10 December 2008 and the ACCC anticipates making a final 
decision on 21 January 2009. However, the anticipated timeline can change in 
line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
 
 


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of a supermarket lease in Wallaroo, S.A. 
Background 
5. 
On 22 October 2008 the ACCC commenced its informal review of the proposed 
acquisition. 
The parties 
The acquirer - Woolworths Limited 
6. 
Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) is an Australian and New Zealand retailer. 
Its operations include supermarkets, petrol, liquor, Big W general merchandise 
stores, and consumer electronics through Dick Smith, PowerHouse and Tandy. 
7. 
Woolworths is Australia’s largest grocery retailer. It operates approximately 780 
supermarkets across Australia. Woolworths is also the owner or joint owner of 
approximately 1060 liquor outlets. Woolworths currently owns a 3000 square 
metre supermarket in Kadina, South Australia, approximately 9km from the 
target. 
The target – supermarket lease in Owen Terrace Wallaroo 
8. 
In May 2008 Leasecorp was selected by the Copper Coast Council as its 
preferred developer for the site in Owen Terrace, Wallaroo where it proposes to 
construct a shopping complex which will include a 3200 square metre 
supermarket and specialty shops. Woolworths proposes to lease the supermarket 
site when the development is completed. 
9. 
The proposed supermarket at Owen Terrace, like the Woolworths supermarket in 
Kadina, will be a full-line supermarket1 carrying a wide range of products.  
The proposed acquisition 
10. 
Woolworths proposes to acquire a lease from Leasecorp to operate the 
supermarket at Owen Terrace Wallaroo. 
Other industry participants 
11. 
Drake Food Markets (Drake) is an operator of 40 independent supermarkets 
under the Foodland and Supa IGA banners2. In the Copper Coast region Drake 
operates two stores under the Foodland banner at Wallaroo and Moonta. Moonta 
is approximately 16km south of Wallaroo (please see map of the Copper Coast 
region at Attachment A). The ACCC notes that the existing Drake supermarkets 
at Wallaroo and Moonta have floor areas of approximately 1400 and 1500 square 
                                                 
1 The ACCC’s inquiries indicate that while some parties disagree on the precise definition of a full-line 
supermarket, it is generally considered to be a supermarket with a full range of goods including packaged 
groceries, fresh meat, bakery and deli departments, fresh fruit and vegetables and frozen foods. A full-
line supermarket is generally considered to be at least 2500sqm. Some market participants draw a 
distinction between basic full-line supermarkets at 2500sqm, and larger, major full-line supermarkets of 
at least 3000sqm and up to 4500sqm. 
2 Drake’s 30 South Australian supermarkets operate under the Foodland banner while its 10 Queensland 
supermarkets operate under the Supa IGA banner. It also operates three newsagencies in Adelaide. 
 
2


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of a supermarket lease in Wallaroo, S.A. 
metres respectively and may not be considered full line supermarkets. The ACCC 
seeks further information on the nature of the existing Drake supermarkets in 
Wallaroo including details of their range and the categories supplied at these 
supermarkets, and their competitive impact.  
12. 
Drake has expressed an interest in operating a new 2500 square metre full line 
supermarket in Owen Terrace Wallaroo (see With/Without test below at 
paragraphs 18 – 25). The ACCC’s inquiries indicate that a full-line Drake 
supermarket is generally regarded as offering a range of goods which is 
comparable in size but different in composition to those of Woolworths.  
13. 
IGA Kadina – a small convenience supermarket of approximately 400 square 
metres operates under the IGA banner in Kadina.  
14. 
Coles Chain (Coles) – There are no Coles supermarkets in the Copper Coast 
region.  
15. 
Aldi Stores (Aldi) – Aldi does not operate any stores in South Australia.  
Market inquiries 
16. 
On 22 October 2008 the ACCC commenced a review under the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. Submissions from interested parties closed on 12 November 
2008. The ACCC has received information from a range of interested parties. 
17. 
The ACCC is now calling for further information from interested parties to assist 
with its investigation as set out below. 
Additional background 
With/without test 
18. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider 
the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely competitive environment 
post-merger if the transaction proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely 
competitive environment if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” 
position) to determine whether the acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market.  
19. 
The information available to the ACCC suggests that in the absence of the 
proposed acquisition, it appears likely that Drake will open a large full line 
supermarket at the Owen Terrace site in Wallaroo either with Leasecorp or 
another developer. In particular, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that Leasecorp 
intends to open a supermarket as part of its proposed development, and that if 
Woolworths were unable to operate that supermarket, it is likely that another 
supermarket operator, probably Drake, would be willing and able to operate the 
supermarket. Alternatively, if Leasecorp were unwilling to proceed with the 
development without Woolworths as a tenant, the ACCC understands that 
another developer is willing and able to proceed with a development on the site 
that would include a full-line Drake supermarket.  
 
3


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of a supermarket lease in Wallaroo, S.A. 
20. 
Accordingly, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that this forms the basis of the 
“without” position for the purposes of the ACCC’s competition assessment.  
21. 
The “with” position is that the Leasecorp development and Woolworths 
acquisition of the lease both proceed, and that Woolworths opens a large format 
full-line supermarket upon construction of the shopping complex at the site. 
22. 
The ACCC has also received submissions regarding the likely future of the 
existing Drake Foodland supermarket at Wallaroo if the Woolworths transaction 
proceeds. In particular, it has been submitted that the Drake Foodland is a smaller 
supermarket in a less desirable location, and would likely lose a substantial 
proportion of its trade to the proposed Woolworths supermarket, making it 
unviable and leading it to exit the market. 
23. 
Based on this information and further confidential information available to it, the 
ACCC has formed the preliminary view that it is likely that the current Drake 
Foodland supermarket at Wallaroo is likely to exit the market if the transaction 
proceeds. 
24. 
Similarly, if the acquisition does not proceed and instead Drake opens a full-line 
supermarket at the Owen Terrace site, the ACCC considers it likely that the 
existing Drake supermarket at Wallaroo will close. 
25. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties either supporting or 
disagreeing with the ACCC’s preliminary view in relation to both the ‘with’ and 
the ‘without’ positions. 
Market definition 
Local retail supermarket market 
26. 
Consistent with previous matters, the ACCC has considered the proposed 
acquisition in the context of a local retail supermarket market. 
27. 
In defining relevant markets, the ACCC takes a purposive approach. In a number 
of previous supermarket matters in urban areas the ACCC has considered the 
geographic scope of local supermarket markets to be within a 3-5 km radius 
surrounding the supermarket to be acquired. In regional areas, the ACCC has 
generally defined broader markets, reflecting the generally greater willingness of 
consumers in regional areas to travel for the purpose of grocery shopping as well 
as the greater need to travel between towns for other purposes. In each case there 
are a number of geographic factors that influence the precise geographic scope of 
the relevant market. 
28. 
The proposed supermarket will be located in Wallaroo, a small regional town 
approximately 160 kilometres from Adelaide in the Copper Coast region of the 
Yorke Peninsula in South Australia. Wallaroo has a population of approximately 
2800. There are two other towns within the Copper Coast region. Kadina is 
approximately 9 kilometres from Wallaroo with a population of approximately 
4200, and Moonta is approximately 16 kilometres from Wallaroo and 17 
kilometres from Kadina with a population of approximately 3800. 
 
4


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of a supermarket lease in Wallaroo, S.A. 
29. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries have indicated that Kadina is the ‘regional centre’ 
of the area, containing the local council’s offices, a number of banks and 
insurance companies, and a broader retail offering not available in Wallaroo or 
Moonta. Market inquiries suggest that residents of Wallaroo and Moonta often 
travel to Kadina for employment, to access council services or schools, or to 
access the shopping options that are not available in Wallaroo or Moonta.  
30. 
This is relevant to the question of market definition. As residents of Wallaroo and 
Moonta regularly travel to Kadina, they have the opportunity to shop at the 
supermarket in Kadina in conjunction with a trip already being made to Kadina 
for other purposes. For this reason there is relatively high potential for consumer 
substitution between the supermarkets at Wallaroo and Moonta and the 
Woolworths supermarket at Kadina (much more than would be the case for 
supermarkets separated by similar distances in an urban area).   
31. 
The ACCC’s inquiries suggest that comparatively fewer trips are made between 
Wallaroo and Moonta, since neither is the regional centre and they are further 
apart than Wallaroo and Kadina. Further, there is less need for residents of 
Kadina to travel to either Moonta or Wallaroo on a regular basis, since there are 
few services available in those towns that are not available in Kadina. 
Accordingly, the ACCC has formed the preliminary view that the Drake 
supermarket at Moonta is unlikely to impose a close competitive constraint on 
either the supermarket at Kadina or the proposed supermarket at Wallaroo.  
32. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the geographic scope of the relevant retail 
supermarket includes both Wallaroo and Kadina, but not Moonta. 
33. 
The ACCC seeks further information from interested parties in relation to this 
preliminary view. 
Market concentration 
34. 
Following the proposed acquisition (and once the supermarket has been 
constructed in Wallaroo), Woolworths would operate large full line supermarkets 
at Wallaroo and Kadina. As outlined in the with/without test section above, the 
ACCC considers it likely that if Woolworths opens a full-line supermarket at 
Wallaroo, the existing Drake supermarket at Wallaroo would close.  
35. 
Accordingly, if the transaction proceeds, Woolworths’ two supermarkets would 
be the only two supermarkets in the relevant market. There would also continue 
to be a small (400 square metres) IGA store in Kadina and a Drake supermarket 
outside the relevant market in Moonta.  
Procurement market 
36. 
Consistent with its consideration of previous supermarket acquisitions, the ACCC 
has also considered the acquisition in the context of a state wide market for the 
procurement of products sold in supermarkets by supermarket wholesalers 
(including vertically integrated supermarket chains who provide their own 
“wholesaling” services) from growers and suppliers of products sold in 
supermarkets.  
 
5


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of a supermarket lease in Wallaroo, S.A. 
Wholesale market 
37. 
Consistent with its consideration of previous supermarket acquisitions, the ACCC 
has also considered the acquisition in the context of a state wide market for the 
wholesaling of products sold in supermarkets.  
Statement of issues 
38. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories, “issues which may raise concerns” and “issues unlikely to 
pose concerns”. 
Issues which may raise concerns 
A substantial lessening of competition in the local retail supermarket market  
Overview 
39. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may constitute a 
substantial lessening of competition in the relevant local supermarket market 
when compared with the likely situation without the acquisition. The factors 
considered in reaching this preliminary view are discussed below. The ACCC is 
seeking further information from interested parties regarding these issues before 
it forms a final view of the proposed acquisition. 
40. 
As outlined at paragraphs 19 – 20 above, the ACCC considers that if the 
proposed acquisition does not proceed, it is likely that Drake or another non-
Woolworths entity will acquire the lease to operate a full line supermarket at the 
Owen Terrace site in Wallaroo, in competition with the full line Woolworths 
supermarket in Kadina. 
41. 
The ACCC must therefore consider whether the acquisition of the lease by 
Woolworths will result in a substantial lessening of competition relative to the 
“without” position. The ACCC has considered the likely level of competitive 
tension in the context of a larger full line supermarket as outlined in the “without” 
position. This has been compared with the competitive environment ‘with’ the 
proposed acquisition. 
42. 
A higher level of competitive tension may be manifested in a number of ways 
including more price competition, specials and promotions, an increase in quality, 
increased range and/or consumer choice, better service levels and other relevant 
factors. 
43. 
While the ACCC is primarily seeking information regarding the likely level of 
competitive tension in the ‘without’ position, it has also received some 
submissions from parties who consider it more likely that if the Woolworths 
transaction does not proceed, there will be no development on the Owen Terrace 
site, and the status quo will instead continue. Accordingly, the ACCC also seeks 
information regarding the current level of competitive tension between the 
existing Drake supermarket at Wallaroo and the Woolworths supermarket at 
 
6


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of a supermarket lease in Wallaroo, S.A. 
Kadina, and how this would compare with the competitive environment if 
Woolworths operated supermarkets in both Kadina and Wallaroo. 
Competitive response to new entry or expansion 
44. 
The ACCC considers that some supermarkets and supermarket chains respond to 
the opening of a new full line supermarket (such as a Drake supermarket) in a 
number of ways, including by offering discounts and additional promotions in 
nearby supermarkets. Consumers benefit from this competitive response. The 
ACCC seeks further information regarding the forms and duration of the 
competitive response by supermarkets to the entry of new full-line competitors 
(especially Drake). 
Range 
45. 
If Drake were to open a supermarket at the Owen Terrace site, it is likely that it 
would be a full-line supermarket of approximately 2500 square metres. The 
supermarkets that Drake currently operates at Wallaroo and Moonta are medium 
sized supermarkets with floor areas of around 1400 and 1500 square metres 
respectively. The ACCC seeks further information regarding the range of 
products that are offered at full line Drake supermarkets as compared to 
Woolworths in Kadina. In particular, the ACCC is interested in obtaining further 
information regarding the extent to which Drake offers a different range, 
including the number of lines that are available in its supermarkets, the extent to 
which different branded or private label products are on offer, and differences in 
the number and range of specialty items and locally produced products. 
46. 
The ACCC also seeks further information regarding the range of products that are 
offered at the existing Drake supermarket at Wallaroo. 
Price competition and promotions  
47. 
The ACCC considers that the price of grocery items is one of the features 
customers take into consideration when choosing between supermarkets. The 
ACCC seeks further information on the extent to which Drake’s full line 
supermarkets compete on prices with Woolworths and other supermarket 
operators. The information may relate to every day pricing, promotional pricing 
or other issues relating to price, such as suppliers seeking to promote their 
product to customers by offering ‘case deals’ or discounts via Drakes or 
Woolworths. These may occur at different times due to the timing of the deals 
between the supplier and the wholesaler/ retailer. 
48. 
The ACCC also seeks further information as to the extent that the existing Drake 
supermarket in Wallaroo currently competes, or attempts to compete with the 
Woolworths supermarket in Kadina on price. 
Fresh produce 
49. 
Fresh produce is an important part of a supermarket’s offering to customers. The 
ACCC seeks further information on the quality of Drake’s and Woolworths’ fresh 
 
7


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of a supermarket lease in Wallaroo, S.A. 
produce, and in particular any difference in their supply arrangements which may 
affect this. 
50. 
In addition, the ACCC seeks information as to the difference in the quality and 
range of fresh produce that is offered at Drake’s full-line supermarkets and that 
currently available to shoppers at the existing Drake supermarket in Wallaroo. 
Service levels 
51. 
The ACCC considers that service levels including the number of staff at check 
out points or available to customers in store, the maintenance of the store, store 
opening hours and other aspects of service are important features of a 
supermarkets offering. The ACCC seeks information regarding the ways in which 
full line Drake supermarkets seek to compete with Woolworths and other 
supermarkets on service, and evidence that competition between supermarkets in 
a local market results in better service. 
52. 
The ACCC also seeks information regarding the ways in which the existing 
Drake supermarket in Wallaroo seeks to compete with Woolworths in Kadina on 
service, and any evidence that competitive tension between Drake in Wallaroo 
and Woolworths in Kadina results in better service. 
Choice 
53. 
The ACCC notes that in the ‘with’ position, Woolworths will operate the only 
two full line supermarkets in the relevant local market. The ACCC is seeking 
further information regarding the value to consumers of having a choice between 
different supermarket operators in the relevant market. 
Other 
54. 
The ACCC seeks further information and submissions on other ways in which 
full line Drake supermarkets compete with Woolworths and other supermarket 
operators. Other factors that may be important may include such things as 
customers being able to choose between supermarkets on the basis of corporate 
citizenship or their sponsorship of local sporting clubs. 
55. 
The ACCC also seeks further information regarding any other ways in which the 
existing Drake supermarket in Wallaroo currently competes with Woolworths in 
Kadina. 
Barriers to entry 
Access to new sites 
56. 
The ACCC has considered whether it is likely that a potential new entrant could 
gain access to other sites for a new supermarket in the relevant local market. 
Generally, if there are few barriers to new entry, a substantial lessening of 
competition may be unlikely. 
 
8


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of a supermarket lease in Wallaroo, S.A. 
57. 
Market inquiries have identified some potential development sites in the relevant 
local market. 
58. 
The Kadina Agriculture, Horticulture and Floriculture Society is currently 
seeking expressions of interest from developers with possible proposals for the 
development of the ‘Showgrounds site’ which comprises more than 10 acres of 
land and is approximately 500 metres from the town centre of Kadina. If the 
Showgrounds site is ultimately sold to developers, it is possible that developers 
may suggest a retail development of this site. However, if the Showgrounds site 
were to be developed, there are a number of planning and approval stages that 
must be completed before it could be developed and it is likely to be a number of 
years before any possible supermarket could be developed. Further, a 
supermarket operator would have to compete for the Showgrounds site with 
alternative development proposals. 
59. 
There is a portion of former industrial land of sufficient size for the development 
of a supermarket in Wallaroo which is referred to as the ‘Pivot site’. The Pivot 
site is located approximately 300 metres from the proposed development site in 
Wallaroo. However, this site is currently under rehabilitation which will require 
completion before any steps to develop it can occur. Similarly to the 
Showgrounds site in Kadina, there are a number of planning and approval stages 
that must be completed before it could be developed and it is likely to be a 
number of years before any possible supermarket could be developed. Further, a 
supermarket operator would have to compete for the Pivot site with alternative 
development proposals. 
60. 
Market inquiries have identified a number of other smaller potential development 
sites. However, market inquiries indicate that no other sites are sufficiently large 
or appropriately located for the development of a new full-line supermarket. 
61. 
While there is some potential for the development of a new supermarket in the 
relevant local market, the ACCC considers this prospect to be highly uncertain. In 
its preliminary view, the ACCC considers access to suitable new sites to 
constitute a high barrier to entry. However, further submissions on this point will 
be taken into account before the ACCC forms a concluded view on the proposed 
acquisition. 
Commercial viability of entry  
62. 
The ACCC has considered whether, even if a potential new entrant could gain 
access to an appropriate site in the relevant local market, it is unlikely that entry 
would be commercially viable.  
63. 
Full line supermarkets rely on having access to a relatively large group of 
customers; there are significant sunk costs in establishing a new supermarket and 
significant fixed costs which the supermarket’s owner seeks to spread over a 
large volume of sales. 
64. 
It is proposed that the new Woolworths supermarket at Wallaroo would be a full-
line supermarket, as is the existing supermarket at Kadina. Market inquiries 
suggest that the relevant local market has a relatively small population to support 
 
9


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of a supermarket lease in Wallaroo, S.A. 
two such large full line supermarkets. The average “spend per head” by residents 
on supermarket products is also somewhat below the state average as a result of 
the higher average age of residents, lower proportion of families with children 
and lower proportion of the population in full-time employment. 
65. 
In these circumstances, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that it is unlikely that 
another supermarket operator will consider it viable to open a new full line 
supermarket within the next 2-3 years. 
66. 
The ACCC seeks further submissions as to whether the relevant local market is 
large enough to induce new entry by a full line competing supermarket if 
Woolworths were to seek to increase prices or lower service levels following the 
opening on its new store in Wallaroo. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
Procurement market 
67. 
The ACCC has conducted a preliminary assessment to determine whether the 
proposed acquisition will lessen competition in the market for the procurement of 
products for sale in supermarkets. 
68. 
Supermarket chains compete with each other and with independent supermarket 
wholesalers to acquire products from growers and other producers for subsequent 
retail sale. The proposed acquisition will lead to a small increase the volume of 
supermarket products acquired by Woolworths and a similar decrease in the 
amount acquired by its competitor Metcash, which supplies products to Drakes. 
69. 
However, given the size of the transaction relative to the volumes of each of the 
players in the procurement market, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition is unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition 
for the procurement of products sold in supermarkets. 
Wholesale market 
70. 
The ACCC has conducted a preliminary assessment to determine whether the 
proposed acquisition will lessen competition in the wholesale market for goods 
sold in supermarkets. 
71. 
The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is likely to reduce the 
wholesale volume of its wholesaler, Metcash, by the amount that the Drakes 
supermarkets at Wallaroo and Moonta will lose to the new Woolworths 
supermarket in Wallaroo. 
72. 
While this reduced volume may have an incremental impact on Metcash, 
reducing the volume of sales over which it is able to spread its cost, it is likely 
that the impact will not be large enough to materially raise its average cost nor to 
force Metcash to increase the prices it charges to its remaining customers (i.e. 
other independent supermarkets, particularly in South Australia). 
 
10


Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of a supermarket lease in Wallaroo, S.A. 
73. 
Therefore, given the relatively small volume that Metcash may lose compared 
with its South Australian turnover, the ACCC considers any impact is unlikely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in this market. 
ACCC's future steps 
74. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
75. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the issues 
identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be relevant 
to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
76. 
Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 10 December 2008. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market, Leasecorp 
and Woolworths in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction 
with information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final 
view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any competition 
concerns that remain. 
77. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 21 January 2009. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
 
11
