 
MEDIA RELEASE 
 
9 February 2017 
ACCC WILL NOT OPPOSE RURALCO’S PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF TP JONES 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission has announced that it will not 
oppose the proposed acquisition of TP Jones Pty Ltd by Roberts Limited, which is a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Ruralco Holdings Limited (ASX: RHL). 
Roberts and TP Jones are both rural merchandise retailers based in Tasmania and sell 
products such as fertiliser, agricultural chemicals, animal health products, and farm 
merchandise. 
“After speaking to farmers, wholesale buying groups, and manufacturers of rural 
merchandise, the ACCC found that although Roberts and TP Jones directly compete in all of 
the affected local areas, farmers in those areas have other alternatives,” ACCC 
Commissioner Roger Featherston said.  
“In Campbell Town where Roberts and TP Jones are the only two with retail outlets, the 
ACCC concluded that farmers would likely be able to buy rural merchandise from other 
retailers located near Launceston. Farmers could also arrange to have merchandise 
delivered to their farms.” 
Other rural merchandise retailers operating in the relevant local areas include Elders, Serve-
Ag, and independent rural merchandise retailers associated with wholesale buying groups 
such as AIRR and NRI. 
Background 
Ruralco is an agribusiness listed on the Australian Stock Exchange. It has more than 40 
specialist businesses and 500 retail outlets across Australia. 
Roberts is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ruralco which has 14 rural merchandise outlets in 
Tasmania. In additional to rural merchandise retailing, Roberts supplies a range of services 
including wool and livestock agency, real estate, irrigation, rural finance and insurance.  
TP Jones is an independent rural merchandise retailer based in Tasmania. It has four retail 
outlets located at Youngtown, Longford, Campbell Town, and Latrobe. 
Further information is available at www.accc.gov.au  
 
Media enquiries: 1300 138 917 
Email: media@accc.gov.au 
www.accc.gov.au/media  
 
