 
 
Market inquiries email – Woolworths’ acquisition of SUPA IGA Karabar – 17 August 
2022 
 
Dear interested party 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of SUPA IGA Karabar by Woolworths Group Limited (Woolworths). 
Information from local consumers and businesses is one of the ACCC’s most valuable tools 
in assessing mergers. Your experience of supermarkets in the region will help the ACCC 
understand the impact of the proposed acquisition, including how you or your business may 
be affected. 
How to share your views 
A list of specific questions is below. The more information we have, the better we can 
assess the impact of the proposed acquisition, but if you are unsure of any questions you 
can leave them blank. You can also include any other information you think is relevant. 
You can contact us in two ways: 
• 
Reply to this email by 4pm 7 September 2022  
• 
If you would like to discuss the matter, or have any questions, please call me on (02) 
9102 4069. 
This matter is public and you can forward this email to anybody who may be interested. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register here. 
Questions 
1. To better understand your views, please provide a brief description of the reasons for 
your interest in the proposed acquisition (for example, you may be a customer, or a 
competing business, in Karabar or surrounding areas).  
2. Which businesses do you consider are close competitors to the Karabar Supa IGA? 
Please refer to the size, range, price and location of these competitors. 
3. To what extent do Karabar Supa IGA’s and its competitors respond to each others’ 
pricing and promotional activity? 
4. How far do customers typically travel to visit supermarkets and bottle shops in 
Karrabar and surrounding areas? What factors influence how far a customer will 
travel? 
5. Describe any impact that replacing the SUPA IGA Karabar with a Woolworths store 
may have on local producers or suppliers, or retail wholesalers.  
6. Please provide any other information or comments which you consider relevant to be 
the likely competitive effects of the proposed acquisition. 
 
 


 
 
Background  
Woolworths is proposing to acquire the independent supermarket operating as SUPA IGA 
Karabar. The SUPA IGA Karabar is a mid-sized supermarket of approximately 840sqm 
trading area which sells a range of groceries as well as a small range of liquor. 
The ACCC previously opposed Woolworths’ proposed acquisition of the Karabar 
Supermarket in 2008 (then trading under the “Supabarn” banner). Further detail on the 
ACCC’s 2008 merger review, including the Public Competition Assessment, is available on 
the ACCC’s Public Mergers Register here. 
Confidentiality 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s 155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore, please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Kind regards 
 
Micaela Bassford 
Assistant Director | Mergers, Exemptions and Digital Division 
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission 
Level 27, 135 King Street, Sydney 2000  
T: +61 2 9102 4069  
www.accc.gov.au 
The ACCC acknowledges the traditional owners and custodians of Country throughout 
Australia and recognises their continuing connection to the land, sea and community. We pay 
our respects to them and their cultures; and to their Elders past, present and future. 
 Please consider the environment before printing this  
 
 
 
 
