 
Page 1 of 8 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
30 January 2026 
Woolworths Limited - proposed acquisition of the SUPA 
IGA Karabar supermarket 
 
The ACCC’s decision   
1. 
On 26 May 2023 the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition by 
Woolworths Group Limited (Woolworths) of the independent supermarket 
operating as a SUPA IGA in Karabar, NSW (SUPA IGA Karabar) and co-located 
liquor business and associated liquor licence trading as Liquor Boss (the 
proposed acquisition).  
2. 
The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition would be likely to have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition in contravention of section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially 
lessening competition in any market. 
3. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
following markets:  
▪ 
the retail supply of grocery products in the local 
Queanbeyan/Jerrabomberra area,  
▪ 
the retail supply of grocery products in the broader Queanbeyan/ACT area,  
▪ 
the retail supply of packaged liquor for off-site consumption in the local 
Queanbeyan/Jerrabomberra area, and 
▪ 
the wholesale supply of groceries in the broader Queanbeyan/ACT area. 
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC to oppose the proposed acquisition.  
5. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 


 
Page 2 of 8 
▪ 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction. 
▪ 
As assessments are relatively brief and do not refer to confidential 
information, assessments do not necessarily set out all of the issues and 
information considered by the ACCC.  
▪ 
The ACCC’s findings and conclusions set out in this public competition 
assessment reflect information available to the ACCC at the time of its 
decision and do not attempt to take into account developments in the 
industry subsequent to the ACCC’s decision. 
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: Woolworths Group Limited 
6. 
At the time of the ACCC’s decision, Woolworths was one of Australia’s largest 
grocery retailers, operating 1,095 stores across Australia.1 Woolworths operated 
two supermarkets near SUPA IGA Karabar: one in Queanbeyan and the other in 
Jerrabomberra.  
The target: SUPA IGA Karabar and Liquor Boss 
7. 
SUPA IGA Karabar was an independent supermarket selling a range of 
groceries and liquor in an attached liquor store (trading as Liquor Boss), located 
in Karabar, NSW. Karabar was a small residential suburb approximately 2.5 km 
from the town centre of Queanbeyan, NSW, south-east of Canberra.  
8. 
The owner of SUPA IGA Karabar and Liquor Boss also owned the Karabar 
Shopping Mall in which they were located. Karabar Shopping Mall was 
approximately 4,500 sqm and housed 15 tenancies. SUPA IGA Karabar was its 
sole grocery offering. 
The transaction 
9. 
Woolworths proposed to acquire 100% of the grocery and liquor business 
associated with SUPA IGA Karabar from Karabar Property Pty Ltd.  
Review timeline 
10. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter. 
Date 
Event 
17 August 2022 
ACCC commenced informal review under the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. 
7 September 2022 
Closing date for submissions. 
 
1 Woolworths Group, Woolworths Group 2023 Annual Report, p 33. 


 
Page 3 of 8 
Date 
Event 
8 November 2022 
Timeline suspended pending receipt of further information. 
Former proposed decision date for announcement of ACCC's 
findings (10 November 2022) delayed. 
5 December 2022 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
8 December 2022 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
12 January 2023 
Closing date for submissions. 
20 March 2023 
ACCC awaiting information from Woolworths. Former 
provisional date for announcement of findings (23 March) 
delayed. 
14 April 2023 
ACCC timeline recommenced. 
18 April 2023 
Former proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s findings 
(20 April) delayed at Woolworths' request. 
26 May 2023 
ACCC announced that it opposed the proposed acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
11. 
The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, potential competitors, customers, wholesalers and other 
industry bodies. The ACCC sought submissions in relation to the potential 
competition issues arising from the proposed acquisition. 
Statement of issues 
12. 
On 8 December 2022 the ACCC published a Statement of Issues on the 
proposed acquisition. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC stated its 
preliminary view that the proposed acquisition was likely to substantially lessen 
competition in the retail market for the supply of grocery products in the local 
area surrounding SUPA IGA Karabar. 
Competition analysis 
Future with and without the acquisition 
13. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considered the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 
competition if the acquisition proceeded (the ‘with’ position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition did not proceed (the ‘without’ position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition was likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
14. 
If Woolworths were to have acquired the target site, it would then have been 
rebranded as a Woolworths Metro store. Accordingly, SUPA IGA Karabar’s 
range of delicatessen products, local and imported specialty continental products 


 
Page 4 of 8 
and IGA private label branded products, along with other aspects of its 
differentiated offer, including its local decision making, service and site amenity, 
alternative pricing and promotional cycles, would have been replaced with 
Woolworths’ Metro offering. The vendor submitted that if the acquisition were to 
proceed, it would have renovated the Karabar Shopping Mall and established a 
speciality delicatessen in the centre. 
15. 
The ACCC considered that the likely future without the proposed merger would 
be the status quo, where SUPA IGA Karabar would continue to operate as an 
IGA or another independent supermarket, under either current or alternative 
ownership with a similar differentiated offering.  
Market definition  
16. 
The ACCC’s starting point for considering which markets may be affected by the 
proposed acquisition was to identify the areas of overlap between the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties. The ACCC then 
considered other actual or potential suppliers of those products, as well as what 
other products constituted sufficiently close substitutes to provide a significant 
source of constraint on the merged entity. 
Market for the retail supply of groceries 
17. 
The parties overlapped in the retail market for the supply of grocery products. 
Within the broader Queanbeyan region, Woolworths operated a full-line 
supermarket in both Queanbeyan and Jerrabomberra, and the target operated 
the SUPA IGA store in Karabar. There were also a Coles supermarket and two 
ALDI supermarkets in the local area. 
18. 
The ACCC excluded convenience stores from the product market, as the degree 
of competitive pressure convenience stores place on the full-line supermarkets in 
the local Queanbeyan/Jerrabomberra area was not likely to be strong. 
Local geographic market 
19. 
The ACCC considered the appropriate geographic dimension of the retail market 
for the supply of groceries to be a 3-5 km radius surrounding SUPA IGA Karabar 
(see Figure 1). The ACCC’s investigation and market inquiries indicated that 
sales to customers residing further than 5 km from SUPA IGA Karabar were 
uncommon, occurring mainly when the customer is in the area for another 
purpose.  
20. 
The ACCC considered supermarkets in Googong, including the Cannons IGA, 
were not close substitutes for SUPA IGA Karabar because Googong was 
isolated from Karabar. The ACCC’s investigation and market inquires indicated 
that residents of Googong were likely to regularly pass through or near 
Jerrabomberra and Karabar but residents of the local 
Queanbeyan/Jerrabomberra area would generally not pass through or frequent 
Googong. While the ACCC did not consider Cannons IGA to be in the same 
local market, the ACCC did have regard to the potential competitive dynamics 
between Cannons IGA and SUPA IGA Karabar. 


 
Page 5 of 8 
Figure 1: Map of supermarkets in Karabar and surrounding suburbs 
 
Substantial lessening of competition in the retail market for the 
supply of grocery products in the local area  
Market concentration and alternative suppliers 
21. 
The ACCC’s investigation found that the retail market for the supply of grocery 
products in the Queanbeyan and Jerrabomberra area was already highly 
concentrated and that replacing SUPA IGA Karabar with a Woolworths store 
would further increase this concentration. 
22. 
The proposed acquisition would result in Woolworths operating three of six 
supermarkets in the local Queanbeyan and Jerrabomberra area. Within both a 
3 km and 5 km radius of SUPA IGA Karabar, local consumers would be left with 
one Coles and two ALDI stores as alternatives, reducing the number of 
alternative supermarket operators with a significant size and range from four to 
three.  
SUPA IGA Karabar’s differentiated shopping experience 
23. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would remove the 
competitive tension provided by SUPA IGA Karabar’s differentiated shopping 
experience, including in relation to its local decision-making, product range and 
quality, service levels, pricing and promotions.  
24. 
The ACCC considered SUPA IGA Karabar’s ability to make range and service 
decisions locally and independently enabled it to respond to local considerations 
and preferences. 


 
Page 6 of 8 
25. 
The ACCC found that SUPA IGA Karabar’s ability to compete with national 
supermarket chains and their offerings through this local decision-making 
provided material competitive tension in the local area. 
26. 
The ACCC found that the range and quality of products available at SUPA IGA 
Karabar differed from those available at Woolworths, Coles and ALDI.  
27. 
Market feedback indicated that the range and quality of products were key points 
of differentiation for SUPA IGA Karabar. The range included delicatessen 
products, local and imported specialty continental products and IGA’s private 
label branded products, which were not available at other supermarkets in the 
area.  
28. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would result in the loss of 
SUPA IGA Karabar’s differentiated product mix, which was likely to be replaced 
by Woolworths’ offering. Although some of these products may have been made 
available if the vendor were to establish a speciality delicatessen in the centre in 
the future with the acquisition, this may not have occurred, and even if it did, the 
ACCC considered that this would be insufficient to replace SUPA IGA Karabar’s 
integrated convenience offering. 
29. 
The ACCC also considered that the proposed acquisition would remove the 
competitive tension posed by SUPA IGA Karabar’s ability to adapt dynamically 
and independently to changes in local customer range preferences. 
30. 
Market feedback indicated that customers valued the higher level of 
personalised customer service at SUPA IGA Karabar, including through its 
staffed checkouts, local staff and community focus.  
31. 
The ACCC considered there were competitive benefits arising from a locally 
owned supermarket needing to offer service levels that responded dynamically 
to local customer preferences (and changes to those preferences) in order to 
compete with other supermarket operators in the area. Post-acquisition, this 
benefit would have been lost, and the remaining supermarkets would be 
operated by three competitors who make standardised service level decisions at 
a state or national, rather than at a local level. 
32. 
The ACCC considered the proposed acquisition would also have removed the 
competitive tension provided by SUPA IGA Karabar’s differentiated pricing and 
promotional offering in the local market. 
33. 
Supermarkets compete both on shelf pricing and on the frequency and types of 
promotions and discounts available. The promotional cycles in supermarkets 
tended not to overlap for similarly stocked items, such that no one supermarket 
was likely to have the lowest price on every item at any one time.  
34. 
As such, the ACCC considered that access in a local market to a variety of 
separately owned supermarkets with differing pricing and promotional cycles 
provided a benefit to local customers via the ability to shop at each different 
supermarket for items at the cheapest available price. 
Barriers to entry and expansion 
 
35. 
The ACCC considered that barriers to entry to supermarket retailing were 
generally high. In particular, there were considerable lead times and sunk costs 


 
Page 7 of 8 
involved in establishing a new supermarket store, in a market already served by 
multiple existing supermarket stores, including nationally scaled incumbents.  
36. 
During its review, the ACCC was aware of a proposed supermarket in the 
broader geographic region at Googong Central. The ACCC considered the 
proposed supermarket at Googong Central, like other supermarkets in Googong, 
would be unlikely to provide a material constraint on the combined entity had the 
proposed acquisition proceeded.   
37. 
The ACCC considered that any additional potential entry in the local area was 
unlikely to occur in a sufficient and timely manner to alleviate concerns in the 
local market raised by the proposed acquisition.  
Reduction in competition in the retail market for the supply of liquor 
for off-site consumption in the local area 
38. 
The ACCC considered the retail market for the supply of packaged liquor for off-
site consumption in the local area surrounding SUPA IGA Karabar, as depicted 
in Figure 2. The ACCC did not consider it was necessary to precisely define the 
geographic scope of this market. 
39. 
The ACCC concluded that the loss of the liquor store attached to SUPA IGA 
Karabar (trading as Liquor Boss) would not substantially lessen competition in 
the relevant market. Following the acquisition, a range of liquor store operators 
would have remained within the local area and would continue to competitively 
constrain the liquor store attached to SUPA IGA Karabar.  
Figure 2: Map of liquor stores in Karabar and surrounding suburbs 
 


 
Page 8 of 8 
Reduction in regional, state or national competition between 
supermarkets and liquor stores 
40. 
The ACCC considered that major supermarkets including Woolworths and 
Coles, banner groups, like IGA, and liquor store chains, like Liquor Boss 
competed both locally to attract customers and also competed in wider 
geographic markets on a regional, state or national level.  
41. 
The ACCC concluded that the loss of a single store, SUPA IGA Karabar, would 
be unlikely to substantially lessen competition between supermarkets in the retail 
supply of grocery products in the broader region.  
42. 
Similarly, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would have been 
unlikely to substantially lessen competition between liquor store chains in the 
broader region. More than 5 retail banners offering retail packaged liquor would 
remain and continue to provide a competitive constraint on liquor store chains in 
the wider area. 
Impact on wholesale supply of groceries to independent 
supermarkets 
43. 
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to 
substantially lessen competition in the wholesale supply of groceries in the 
broader region given the size of SUPA IGA Karabar as a customer in relation to 
overall wholesale grocery supply volumes.  
Conclusion 
44. 
Based on the above conclusions, the ACCC determined that the proposed 
acquisition of SUPA IGA Karabar by Woolworths was likely to substantially 
lessen competition in the retail market for the supply of grocery products in the 
local Queanbeyan/Jerrabomberra area in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
As such, the ACCC decided to oppose the proposed acquisition.  
