Aviation Training Partners - proposed acquisition of Aviation Training Holdings 
(trading as Ansett Aviation Training) – Market Inquiries Email - 17 January 2022 
 
Dear interested party 
 
Aviation Training Partners, a consortium comprised of Bain Capital Credit, LP (Bain 
Credit), Arcadia Capital Pty Ltd (Arcadia Capital), and affiliates of the leadership 
team of Bridger Aerospace Group Holdings, LLC (Bridger Aerospace) (each, a 
Consortium Member) proposes to acquire Aviation Training Holdings Pty Ltd, 
trading as Ansett Aviation Training (AAT) (the proposed acquisition). We are 
seeking your views on the proposed acquisition because we understand you have an 
interest in markets that may be affected.  
 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is an independent 
statutory authority responsible for investigating whether mergers are likely to 
substantially lessen competition. We rely on information from market participants to 
make informed decisions.  
 
The parties 
Bain Credit is an affiliated company of Bain Capital, LP (Bain Capital), an American 
private investment firm. Funds managed and controlled by Bain Capital and Bain 
Credit currently own a majority interest in Virgin Australia. Arcadia Capital is an 
Australian private equity firm, and Bridger Aerospace is an American company which 
provides aerial firefighting and wildfire management services. 
 
AAT is a global provider of flight simulation training services, and simulator housing 
and maintenance services. It has facilities in Brisbane and Melbourne and is the 
largest independent provider of simulation services in Australia. 
 
Information we are seeking 
Please provide a brief description of your business and the reasons for your interest 
in the proposed acquisition, including an explanation of any commercial relationship 
you have any of the Consortium Members. This will help us to better understand your 
views.  
The topics we are interested in include: 
• 
whether the consortium would be likely to have the ability and incentive to 
foreclose access to flight simulation services by airlines that compete with 
Virgin Australia     
• 
the role of flight simulators in meeting regulatory and business requirements 
for pilot training, including the total simulation hours pilots must undertake to 
meet those requirements 
• 
the extent to which airlines in Australia would be able to acquire flight 
simulation services from suppliers other than AAT, including overseas 
suppliers 
• 
the ability for airlines to self-supply flight simulation services, including their 
capacity to expand any existing operations and any costs, or other obstacles 
to do so 
• 
any concerns you have about the likely competition effects of the proposed 
acquisition, including your reasons. 


 
We would be happy to receive your response by email, or have a discussion with you 
over the phone or via Microsoft Teams.   
 
How you can engage 
This matter is public and you can forward this email to anybody who may be 
interested. Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the 
ACCC’s Public Mergers Register. 
 
If you would like to comment in writing, please do so by 5pm, Tuesday 25 January 
2022 by return email, or by forwarding submissions electronically to 
mergers@accc.gov.au (preferably in PDF format) with the title “Submission re 
ATP/AAT – Attention Annabel Garrard / Sophia Liu”. Alternatively, you can email or 
call me on (02) 9102 4028 if you would prefer to set up a time to discuss or if you 
need more time to respond. 
 
Confidentiality 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as 
confidential, and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to 
third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, 
under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
