 
MEDIA RELEASE 
 
23 March 2017 
ACCC WON’T OPPOSE HEALTHE CARE’S PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF 
PULSE HEALTH 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission has decided not to oppose Healthe 
Care Australia’s proposed acquisition of Pulse Health (ASX: PHG). 
Healthe Care and Pulse Health are both private hospital operators. The ACCC’s review of 
the proposed acquisition focused on Forster and Taree in the mid-North Coast region in 
NSW. Healthe Care owns the Mayo Private Hospital in Taree and Pulse Healthe operates 
the Forster Private Hospital. 
“The ACCC found that although the Mayo and Forster private hospitals are the only private 
hospitals in the Forster-Taree region, the two hospitals do not compete closely to attract 
doctors and patients,” ACCC Commissioner Roger Featherston said.   
“Most of the doctors who work in the region see patients at both the Mayo and Forster 
private hospitals. Patient choice between the two hospitals is likely to be driven by location 
and the doctor’s availability. Neither of these elements is likely to change post-acquisition.” 
“Our analysis revealed that the vast majority of patients that reside close to Taree are not 
likely to travel to Forster to receive treatment they could receive at the Mayo Private 
Hospital, and vice versa,” Mr Featherston said. 
The ACCC’s review also considered the potential for Healthe Care to use the acquisition of 
Pulse to increase its bargaining power in negotiations with private health insurance funds. 
“Even with the addition of Pulse Health hospitals, we concluded that the proposed 
acquisition is unlikely to significantly change Healthe Care’s bargaining position in 
negotiations with health funds. Healthe Care will still be significantly smaller than the two 
largest Australian private hospital operators,” Mr Featherston said.  
Background 
Healthe Care operates 17 private hospitals around Australia. These hospitals are located in 
NSW (8), Queensland (4), Victoria (3), Tasmania (1) and Western Australia (1). Pulse’s 
hospitals are located in NSW (5), Queensland (4) and Victoria (3). 
Pulse Health is an ASX listed private health operator with 12 facilities in Australia. Its 
facilities are located in NSW (5), Queensland (4) and Victoria (3). 
 
Media enquiries: 1300 138 917 
Email: media@accc.gov.au 
www.accc.gov.au/media  
 
