Q & A: Healthe proposed acquisition of Pulse 
The ACCC’s invites submissions on the review of Healthe’s proposed acquisition of Pulse, 
including the Forster Private Hospital. 
 
What is Healthe proposing to buy? 
 
Can the ACCC stop the acquisition and what powers does it have? 
 
When will the ACCC make a decision? 
 
When does an acquisition substantially lessen competition? 
 
How can I make a submission? 
 
Are submissions confidential? 
 
Where can I find information on the status of the ACCC’s review?  
What is Healthe proposing to buy? 
Healthe is proposing to buy the private hospitals currently owned by Pulse. Pulse currently owns 
12 facilities, five of which are in NSW, four in Queensland and three in Victoria.  
The ACCC is particularly interested in whether the proposed acquisition would affect competition 
in and around the Forster/Great Lakes and Taree/Manning areas of NSW, as Healthe currently 
owns the Mayo Private Hospital in Taree.  
If the proposed acquisition went ahead, then Healthe would own both the Forster Private Hospital 
and the Mayo Private Hospital which are the only two private hospitals in the area. The next 
closest private hospital is in Port Macquarie, which is over an hour’s drive away. 
Can the ACCC stop the acquisition and what powers does it have? 
Healthe and Pulse have requested the ACCC’s view on whether the acquisition would 
substantially lessen competition. 
If we form the view that Healthe acquiring Pulse is likely to substantially lessen competition, we 
can decide to ‘oppose’ it. Following this decision, Healthe may decide not to proceed with the 
proposed acquisition. 
If we decide to oppose the acquisition and Healthe and Pulse do not agree to modify or abandon 
the acquisition, we can apply to the Federal Court for orders which may include an injunction, 
divestiture or penalties. 
We cannot stop the parties from completing the acquisition – only a court has the power to do 
that. 
When will the ACCC make a decision? 
The ACCC’s proposed decision date is currently 16 March 2017. We will publish our decision on 
the public register. 
This decision may be a decision not to oppose the acquisition or to publish a Statement of Issues 
that sets out our preliminary views about the acquisition, and seeks comments on those views. 
However, this decision date may change for a number of reasons. For example, if we have 
requested information and are awaiting a response to this information request. 


When does an acquisition substantially lessen competition? 
The legal test we apply in considering acquisitions is section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that substantially lessen competition in a 
market, or are likely to do so. The lessening of competition must be substantial. 
Whether an acquisition leads to a substantial lessening of competition depends on a range of 
factors. These include: 
 
the degree to which there is strong competition between the acquirer and the business 
being acquired 
 
whether any other business will effectively compete  
Specifically, the ACCC will consider the extent to which the acquisition would allow the acquirer 
to increase prices and/or decrease service levels. 
See also: The ACCC's approach to merger reviews 
How can I make a submission? 
Responses may be emailed to ForsterHospitalacquisition@accc.gov.au. If you have any 
questions about the ACCC’s review or making a submission, please send an email to the above 
address and an ACCC officer will respond to your inquiry. 
You can also make a submission by post to: 
ACCC Mergers Investigations Branch 
Att: Elizabeth Elias/Fiona Sam 
GPO Box 3131 
Canberra ACT 2601 
Are submissions confidential? 
We do not publish submissions made to ACCC merger reviews. We also will not disclose 
submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for 
example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance 
with the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (for example, the ACCC may provide information 
to government Ministers and government Departments).  
Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in 
advance where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality.  
Where can I find information on the status of the ACCC’s review? 
We list all public merger reviews on our public register. We will update this public register page 
throughout the merger review: 
Healthe – proposed acquisition of Pulse 
However, as information provided to us as part of a merger review is confidential, we cannot 
provide detailed information on the investigation. 
