 
Page 1 of 28 
 
Statement of Issues 
15 October 2015 
Brookfield consortium – proposed acquisition of Asciano 
Limited  
Purpose 
1. 
This Statement of Issues aims to: 
 
give the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition of Asciano Limited (Asciano) by a consortium assembled by 
Brookfield Asset Management Inc., which includes Brookfield Infrastructure 
Partners L.P. (Brookfield) (the proposed acquisition)  
 
identify areas of further inquiry 
 
give all interested parties an opportunity to comment 
 
invite interested parties to submit information to assist us in our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
2. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that substantially lessen competition in a market, or are 
likely to do so.  
3. 
The ACCC has received a large number of submissions expressing significant 
concerns about the impact that the proposed acquisition will have on market 
structures in Western Australia and Queensland as a result of the vertical 
integration that will arise between Brookfield and Asciano. Many interested 
parties are concerned that the proposed acquisition is likely to lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition. 
4. 
In a Statement of Issues, the ACCC divides its preliminary views into three 
categories, 'issues of concern', 'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues 
unlikely to raise concerns’. The proposed acquisition raises a number of issues 
of concern and further detail is set out below. 
Issues of concern 
5. 
The ACCC is concerned that the vertical integration of Brookfield’s Brookfield 
Rail network with Asciano’s Pacific National above rail business would lead to a 


 
Page 2 of 28 
substantial lessening of competition in the relevant markets in which above rail 
service providers compete to haul general freight, bulk grain and bulk ore and 
minerals using the Brookfield Rail network. This is based on the ACCC’s 
preliminary view that, post-acquisition, Brookfield would have the ability and 
incentive to foreclose Pacific National’s above rail competitors that use 
Brookfield Rail and will have access to sensitive commercial information of those 
competitors. 
6. 
The ACCC is concerned that the vertical integration of Brookfield’s Dalrymple 
Bay Coal Terminal (DBCT) with Asciano’s Pacific National above rail business 
would lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the relevant markets in 
which above rail service providers compete to haul coal to DBCT. This is based 
on the ACCC’s preliminary view that, post-acquisition, Brookfield would have the 
ability and incentive to foreclose competitors of Pacific National that haul coal to 
DBCT and will have access to sensitive commercial information of those 
competitors. 
7. 
The ACCC notes that access regimes and related operational arrangements 
have been established that cover Brookfield Rail’s network and DBCT. These 
arrangements apply to environments in WA and Queensland where vertical 
integration is not currently a feature of the market. The ACCC has received 
strong feedback from market participants that the current access regimes and 
operational arrangements would be incapable of dealing with all of the vertical 
integration concerns arising from the proposed acquisition. In this regard, the 
ACCC notes the following:  
a. There is significant difficulty in anticipating all possible foreclosure strategies 
that a vertically integrated entity may pursue, particularly in complex, 
technical industries, and there are substantial challenges and costs involved 
in detecting some forms of foreclosure behaviour, particularly in the day-to-
day operation of infrastructure. This means that an access regime is a 
second-best solution for competition concerns that arise from vertical 
integration of critical infrastructure where users have no (or only limited) 
viable alternatives available. Where the infrastructure is of a technical nature 
and requires many operational decisions to be made on a daily and long-
term basis, and it is vertically integrated with one of a very limited number of 
users of the infrastructure, an access regime may not be capable of averting 
a substantial lessening of competition that would otherwise arise.  
b. The ACCC’s strong view is that the only way to avoid the risks to 
competition that are likely to be created by vertical integration is to avoid the 
creation of a vertically integrated market structure altogether. Access 
regulation has an important role in certain circumstances of market failure in 
the economy (such as the existence of a natural monopoly), however it is 
preferable to avoid structural changes to the market that would exacerbate 
such market failures. 
c. The access regimes and related regulatory arrangements that apply to 
Brookfield Rail’s network and DBCT, and the operational arrangements that 
apply to DBCT, are subject to future change that the ACCC cannot take 
account of at the time of this review. As set out in paragraph 7.70 of the 
ACCC’s Merger Guidelines, while the ACCC takes into account government 
regulation relevant to its competition assessments, as a general principle the 
ACCC does not regard speculation about future alterations to the regulatory 
environment, or the mere ability of government to regulate, as an effective 
competitive constraint. 


 
Page 3 of 28 
8. 
The ACCC recognises that access regimes may be modified to enhance 
protections against competition issues arising from vertical integration. However, 
for the reasons set out above, the ACCC considers that where an owner or long-
term lessee of significant infrastructure is likely to have a relatively unconstrained 
ability to discriminate between access seekers (absent regulation), the 
competition issues that would arise from vertical integration of that infrastructure 
are better dealt with by maintaining a non-vertically integrated market structure. 
Making a submission 
9. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
Brookfield Rail – Whether, and if so how, Brookfield would be able to 
engage in conduct to the detriment of Pacific National’s competitors in 
above rail services using Brookfield Rail’s network  
 
Brookfield Rail – The extent to which the access regime and related 
regulatory arrangements mitigate the competition concerns that arise from 
vertical integration of Brookfield Rail’s network with Pacific National 
 
DBCT – Whether, and if so how, Brookfield would be able to engage in 
conduct to the detriment of Pacific National’s competitors in above rail 
services that deliver coal to DBCT  
 
DBCT – The extent to which the access regime and related regulatory 
arrangements mitigate the competition concerns that arise from vertical 
integration of DBCT with Pacific National 
10. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
11. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 4 
November 2015. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Brookfield consortium proposed acquisition of Asciano 
Limited - attention Stewart McKechnie. If you would like to discuss the matter 
with ACCC officers over the telephone or in person, or have any questions about 
this Statement of Issues, please contact Stewart McKechnie on (03) 9290 1947.  
12. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 17 December 2015, however, 
this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to 
timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
13. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information. 


 
Page 4 of 28 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
14. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
15. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
6 August 2015 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed 
acquisition 
15 October 2015 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
4 November 2015 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of 
Issues 
17 December 2015 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s final 
decision 
The parties 
Brookfield 
16. 
Brookfield is a global asset manager with interests in property, renewable power 
and infrastructure assets. Brookfield has approximately $200 billion of assets 
under management. Brookfield is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and 
the Toronto Stock Exchange. 
17. 
Brookfield’s principal Australian businesses are: 
a. Brookfield Rail in Western Australia; and 
b. DBCT in Queensland. 
Asciano 
18. 
Asciano Limited is an Australian freight logistics company, operating in railway 
freight and ports, and is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. 
19. 
Asciano has three primary businesses: 
a. Pacific National which provides above rail haulage services across the coal, 
intermodal and bulk sectors; 


 
Page 5 of 28 
b. Patrick Terminals and Logistics which is a national container terminal 
operator and provider of stevedoring services to major shipping lines at 
ports in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, combined with an 
integrated landside logistics network; 
c. Patrick Bulk & Automotive Port Services which is a provider of bulk port and 
automotive processing services across over 40 sites in Australia and New 
Zealand. 
20. 
Pacific National provides a range of rail haulage services including bulk rail 
haulage of coal, grain, minerals, concentrate and construction materials. 
The proposed acquisition 
21. 
A consortium assembled by Brookfield Asset Management Inc. that includes 
Brookfield Infrastructure Partners L.P. proposes to acquire 100% of the shares in 
Asciano. 
22. 
The ACCC is not aware of any areas where Brookfield and Asciano supply 
goods or services in competition with each other. However, the proposed 
acquisition would result in vertical integration between Brookfield Rail and Pacific 
National in WA, and between DBCT and Pacific National in Queensland.  
23. 
In WA, Pacific National operates above rail haulage services on Brookfield Rail’s 
network. In Queensland, Pacific National delivers coal to DBCT and Brookfield is 
the long term leaseholder of DBCT.  
24. 
This Statement of Issues therefore focuses on these areas of vertical interaction. 
Industry background relevant to Brookfield Rail 
Brookfield Rail  
25. 
Brookfield Rail is a below rail access provider which operates over 5,100km of 
track and related infrastructure in the southwest region of Western Australia 
under a long term lease with the WA Government. There are approximately 35 
years remaining on this lease. 
26. 
Brookfield Rail is responsible for access management, signalling and 
communication systems, train control, rail construction and maintenance on the 
network. 
27. 
Brookfield Rail’s network is the only freight rail network that provides rail access 
to the region’s five government-owned import and export ports (Geraldton in the 
north, Fremantle (Kwinana) and Bunbury in the west, and Esperance and Albany 
in the south of WA) for minerals, grain and interstate intermodal traffic. 
28. 
Brookfield Rail’s network does not include: 
a. Pilbara railway lines owned and managed by privately listed companies 
including BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Fortescue Metals Group; 
b. The urban component of the former West Australian Government Railways 
(WAGR)/WestRail network, which is under the control of the Public 
Transport Authority of Western Australia for the provision of urban 
passenger services; 


 
Page 6 of 28 
c. The interstate standard gauge line from Kalgoorlie to Adelaide, which is 
owned by the Australian Rail Track Corporation (ARTC). 
29. 
Figure 1 contains a map of Brookfield Rail’s network. 
Figure 1 – Brookfield Rail’s network 
 
Source: Brookfield Rail, ‘Company Overview (Fact Sheet)’, May 2014. 
Rail users  
30. 
The Brookfield Rail network provides rail links for a range of customers and 
commodities such as: 
a. miners located throughout WA producing diverse products such as iron ore, 
alumina, bauxite, coal and nickel (including the iron ore mines in the Eastern 
Goldfields region); 
b. the WA grain belt farmers; and 
c. industrial facilities located around Perth and throughout the coverage area of 
the Brookfield Rail network. 
31. 
The network also connects WA with Australia’s central and eastern states (along 
the East-West Corridor), carrying an estimated 70-80% of all freight that moves 
between the east and west of Australia. An estimated 15-25% is carried by sea, 
and the remainder by road. Brookfield Rail’s network is connected to those 
states by the ARTC’s rail line from Kalgoorlie to Crystal Brook and onwards. 
32. 
Brookfield Rail’s customers fall into two broad categories: 


 
Page 7 of 28 
a. above rail operators who directly hold access rights on the Brookfield Rail 
network and utilise those rights to haul product for an end user (their 
customer); and 
b. end users who wish to haul product and who have a separate agreement 
with an above rail operator whose role is to transport the product. 
33. 
Four above rail operators currently provide services on the Brookfield Rail 
network: Aurizon, Pacific National (owned by Asciano), SCT Logistics, and 
Watco Companies LLC (Watco) (using locomotives and wagons owned by 
CBH).  
34. 
Watco only provides haulage services for the bulk grain task within WA. Aurizon, 
Pacific National and SCT Logistics provide non-bulk haulage services along the 
east west corridor. Aurizon and Pacific National also provide bulk haulage 
services within WA. 
35. 
The relative proportions of the freight task along with the annual freight volumes 
shipped by Brookfield between 2001 and 2013 are below at Figure 2. 
Figure 2 – Brookfield Rail’s freight volumes and task proportions, 2001-13 
 
Source: Brookfield Rail ‘About Us’ Fact Sheet, 19 January 2015, accessible at 
http://www.brookfieldrail.com/assets/br_files/Communications%20Material/140530%20BR%20Corporate
%20Fact%20Sheet%20FINAL.pdf  


 
Page 8 of 28 
36. 
Grain freight is a particularly important product that is shipped across the 
network, with approximately 2,400km of Brookfield’s 5,500km long network 
dedicated solely to the transportation of grain.1 
Brookfield Rail access regime 
37. 
Brookfield Rail is subject to an access regime (the WA Access Regime) 
established by the Railways (Access) Act 1998 (WA) (Railways Access Act) 
and the Railways (Access) Code 2000 (Code), which was established under this 
Act and administered by the Economic Regulation Authority (ERA). 
38. 
The WA Access Regime broadly establishes a framework within which parties 
can negotiate access for regulated railway infrastructure. An entity wishing to 
seek access to this infrastructure under the Code must submit a proposal for 
access under Part 2 of the Code. Once this is made, the railway owner must 
negotiate in good faith with the entity with a view to the railway owner and the 
entity making an access agreement in respect of the route. If agreement cannot 
be reached, Part 3 Division 3 of the Code sets out a mechanism for the 
arbitration of disputes. 
39. 
Alternatively, parties have an option to negotiate access agreements outside the 
Code. However, such negotiations are not subsequently protected by the Code 
unless otherwise agreed between the parties. All agreements negotiated or 
arbitrated under the Code are subject to several policy statement documents 
approved by the ERA, which is responsible for administering the WA Access 
Regime. 
40. 
To date, there have been no access agreements reached under the Code. 
41. 
The WA Access Regime was certified by the relevant Minister for a period of 5 
years as an effective access regime under section 44N of the Act on 11 
February 2011. The ACCC notes that this decision was made against the 
recommendation of the National Competition Council (NCC). While the 
certification is in force, railways that are subject to the WA Access Regime 
cannot be declared under Part IIIA of the Act. 
42. 
The Code is currently undergoing a scheduled review by the ERA under the 
terms of the Railways Access Act. A Draft Report was released by the ERA on 
23 September 2015, with a final report to be provided to the WA Treasurer by 
the end of 2015. Further details about this review follow later in this document. 
Industry background relevant to Dalrymple Bay Coal 
Terminal  
Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal 
43. 
DBCT is located at the Port of Hay Point, 38 kilometres south of Mackay in 
Central Queensland. 
44. 
DBCT is a common-user coal export terminal providing services to a large 
number of mining customers along the Goonyella coal supply chain within the 
Bowen Basin2. It was established in 1983 by the Queensland Government. 
                                                 
 
1 Brookfield Rail, ‘Grain Freight Rail Network Fact Sheet’, 26 February 2015, accessible at 
http://www.brookfieldrail.com/assets/br_files/Communications%20Material/2014-08-
25_BR_Grain%20Rail%20Fact%20Sheet.pdf  


 
Page 9 of 28 
45. 
DBCT is one of the world’s largest export terminals with a nameplate capacity of 
85 mtpa. DBCT exports account for approximately 20% of global seaborne 
metallurgical coal exports and 7% of total global seaborne coal exports. 
46. 
DBCT is owned by the Queensland Government but leased to DBCT 
Management Pty Ltd (DBCTM) for 50 years commencing in 2001 (with an option 
for a further 49 years) under a Port Services Agreement  with DBCT Holdings 
and North Queensland Bulk Ports (both wholly owned by the State of 
Queensland).  
47. 
Brookfield Infrastructure owns DBCTM.  
48. 
DBCT is operated by Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty Ltd (DBCT PL), a 
company owned by a selection of coal mining companies that are users of the 
terminal. DBCT PL operates the terminal under an Operation and Maintenance 
Contract (OMC) with DBCTM. 
49. 
Under the OMC, DBCT PL is responsible for the day to day operations and 
maintenance of DBCT and, subject to the approval of DBCTM, also responsible 
for long term asset management and maintenance planning including budgeting 
and operating plans. 
50. 
The OMC requires both DBCTM and DBCT PL to comply with Terminal 
Regulations which provide detailed requirements for the day-to-day operation of 
DBCT.3  
The Goonyella coal supply chain and users of DBCT 
51. 
DBCT is part of the Goonyella coal supply chain. 
52. 
The Goonyella coal rail system services 30 mines in the Bowen Basin coal 
region in Central Queensland. It carries coal primarily to DBCT and the Hay 
Point Coal Terminal (HPCT). 
53. 
HPCT is a single-user terminal owned and operated by BHP Billiton Mitsubishi 
Alliance. The Goonyella coal rail system is linked to other rail systems that 
connect to the Port of Gladstone (400km south of DBCT) and the Port of Abbot 
Point (200km north of DBCT). 
54. 
In 2014, North Queensland Bulk Ports announced it was not continuing with 
plans to develop the proposed new Dudgeon Point Coal Terminal at the Port of 
Hay Point. 
55. 
A map of the Goonyella coal supply chain is below at Figure 3. 
                                                                                                                                              
 
2 A list of mines that utilise DBCT with a map showing the locations is accessible at 
http://www.dbctm.com.au/coalchain/maps.aspx  
3 The 2010 access undertaking (described at paragraph 68 below) also requires that DBCTM and DBCT 
PL comply with the Terminal Regulations. The Terminal Regulations are accessible at 
http://www.dbctm.com.au/aboutdbct/documents.aspx  


 
Page 10 of 28 
Figure 3 – Map of the Goonyella coal supply chain  
 
Source: http://www.aurizon.com.au/network/central-queensland-coal-network/goonyella-system  
56. 
The mines serviced by the Goonyella coal supply chain are owned and operated 
by the coal producers including Anglo American, BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto, 
Glencore, Peabody and Vale. 
57. 
Coal is extracted from mines by coal producers and then loaded onto coal trains. 
Once the coal is loaded, the train begins the journey towards an export terminal. 
58. 
The Goonyella coal rail system is one of four major rail systems constituting the 
Central Queensland Coal Network (CQCN), which is made up of over 2670km of 
heavy haul rail infrastructure. 
59. 
The CQCN below rail infrastructure is owned and operated by Aurizon Network 
(formerly QR National Network) and is subject to an access regime approved by 
the Queensland Competition Authority (QCA). 
60. 
Coal is transported to DBCT by two competing above rail operators, Aurizon Rail 
(formerly QR National) and Pacific National, using the Goonyella coal rail 
system.  
61. 
Generally, orders for train paths are submitted to Aurizon Network by above rail 
operators on behalf of coal producers. Aurizon Network is responsible for the 
scheduling of train paths. 
62. 
Typically, the mining companies that use DBCT contract with above-rail 
operators and enter into access agreements with Aurizon Network for below rail 
access. 
63. 
Coal is delivered to an export terminal by the rail haulage operator and is 
unloaded as the trains pass through one of three rail receival stations. The coal 
is then transported via a large network of conveyors to either the stockyard for 
storage or straight to the wharf to be loaded on a shipping vessel. 


 
Page 11 of 28 
64. 
DBCTM has long term user agreements with major mining companies producing 
both metallurgical and thermal coal from the Bowen Basin coalfields.  
65. 
In 2007, Integrated Logistics Company (ILC) was established to identify 
improvement initiatives in the Goonyella coal supply chain. Membership of the 
ILC consists of the terminal owner, terminal operator, port authority, network 
operator, above rail operators and coal producers that use DBCT. 
DBCT access regime 
66. 
DBCT is declared for third party access under the Queensland Competition 
Authority Act 1997 (Qld) (QCA Act) with terms and conditions of access 
regulated by a QCA approved access undertaking. 
67. 
The DBCT Access Regime is comprised of: 
a. The QCA Act; 
b. The access undertaking prepared by DBCTM, accepted by the QCA on 23 
September 2010 and effective from 1 January 2011 to 30 June 2016 (the 
2010 access undertaking); and 
c. The port safety regime established under the Transport Infrastructure Act 
1994 (Qld) and the Transport Operations (Marine Safety) Act 1994 (Qld). 
68. 
The 2010 access undertaking sets out terms and conditions for obtaining access 
to terminal services and a process for capacity expansion at DBCT. 
69. 
The 2010 access undertaking is due to expire on 30 June 2016. On 23 June 
2015, the QCA issued an initial undertaking notice under section 133 of the QCA 
Act requiring DBCTM to submit a draft access undertaking by 21 September 
2015 (this time period was subsequently extended to 19 October 2015). 
70. 
On 9 October 2015, the QCA received a draft amending access undertaking 
from DBCTM (to amend the 2010 access undertaking) asking the QCA to 
consider the addition of ring fencing provisions. The QCA is seeking submissions 
by 30 October 2015. 
71. 
On 12 October 2015, the QCA received a draft access undertaking from DBCTM 
(to apply following expiry of the 2010 access undertaking) and is seeking 
submissions by 24 November 2015.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
72. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market.  
73. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
74. 
On the basis of the information currently available, the ACCC considers that the 
status quo would apply. This means that Asciano would be likely to remain under 
independent ownership to Brookfield absent the proposed acquisition. 


 
Page 12 of 28 
Market definition 
75. 
Since the proposed acquisition would result in vertical integration between 
Brookfield Rail and Pacific National in WA and between DBCT and Pacific 
National in Queensland, it is necessary to consider the relevant markets at the 
upstream and downstream levels. 
76. 
In framing the relevant upstream and downstream markets, the ACCC considers 
what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of constraint on the merged entity at each level of the supply 
chain. 
Preliminary view on relevant market(s) 
77. 
Based on information received by the ACCC to date, the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that the markets relevant for assessing the competition effects of the 
acquisition are: 
a. the supply of below rail access to Brookfield Rail’s network  
b. the supply of freight haulage services between WA and Australia's central 
and eastern states 
c. the supply of intrastate haulage services for bulk freight within WA (grain 
and minerals) 
d. the supply of coal handling services at DBCT 
e. the supply of above rail haulage services on the Goonyella coal rail system 
Relevant markets in Western Australia 
Below rail access services 
78. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant upstream market is the market 
for supply of below rail access to Brookfield Rail’s network. 
Above rail haulage services 
79. 
As outlined above, Brookfield Rail’s network is primarily accessed for the 
transport of:  
a. freight between WA and Australia’s central and eastern states and over 
longer distances; 
b. bulk freight (grain and minerals) from inland locations in WA to export 
terminals in WA. 
80. 
Alternative modes of transport for interstate freight are sea and road. Road is the 
only alternative mode of transport for the movement of bulk grain or minerals to 
port in WA.  
81. 
These alternative modes of transport may be viable substitutes for rail transport 
for some freight tasks. For example, road has the advantage of providing point-


 
Page 13 of 28 
to-point delivery and may be a feasible substitute for bulk grain transport over 
shorter distances, depending on the location and origin of the task. However: 
a. rail is a significantly cheaper mode of transport than road over longer 
distances, particularly for east-west freight; 
b. rail is a significantly cheaper mode of transport than road when using high 
capacity, fast loading sites with road and rail access; and 
c. sea is a significantly slower mode of transport than rail for east-west freight. 
82. 
These factors mean that:  
a. for many freight tasks between the east and west of Australia, there are no 
feasible substitutes for above rail haulage using Brookfield Rail’s network – 
as outlined above, an estimated 80% of all freight that moves between the 
east and west of Australia uses Brookfield Rail’s network; and 
b. road haulage is likely to provide a limited constraint for bulk haulage tasks 
within WA. 
83. 
In order to transport freight by rail between the east and west of Australia, it is 
necessary also to obtain below rail access to the ARTC’s rail network between 
Kalgoorlie and Crystal Brook, and in many cases other components of the 
ARTC’s rail network in South Australia, Victoria, NSW and Queensland. In this 
respect, below rail access to Brookfield Rail’s network is complementary to 
below rail access to the ARTC’s rail network. 
84. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant downstream markets are: 
a. the supply of interstate freight haulage services between WA and Australia’s 
central and eastern states; 
b. markets for the supply of intrastate haulage services for bulk freight (grain 
and minerals) within WA. 
85. 
Within these markets, road transport (and sea transport in the case of interstate 
haulage) provides a limited constraint, depending on the particular freight task. 
For example, road transport of grain or minerals may constrain rail transport in 
situations where the freight task involves relatively short distances or smaller 
volumes, but not where the freight task involves relatively longer distances 
and/or high capacity, fast loading sites. 
86. 
The ACCC is therefore seeking further comment on the relevant markets.  
Relevant markets in Queensland 
87. 
Market feedback on the proposed acquisition has centred on coal handling 
services provided by DBCTM (or its appointed operator) at DBCT and on the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition between above rail haulage 
providers that deliver coal to DBCT. 
88. 
As identified in the industry background section above at paragraph 52, coal is 
transported from certain mines in the Bowen Basin region to DBCT. Coal 
producers provided a range of reasons why other coal terminals such as those at 


 
Page 14 of 28 
Abbot Point and Gladstone are not close substitutes for DBCT. Some of the 
reasons included: 
a. The distance from mine to port is a significant factor in selecting a coal 
export terminal - DBCT is the closest terminal to the mines and rail haulage 
costs are therefore significantly cheaper; 
b. Capacity constraints at other terminals and on connecting rail networks 
prevent coal producers from utilising terminals other than DBCT; 
c. The long-term ‘take-or-pay’ nature of both below rail and port access 
contracts limit switching between terminals; 
d. Transporting coal to Abbot Point requires coal producers to use the 
Goonyella to Abbot Point system (which, unlike the Goonyella coal rail 
system, is a non-electrified rail system and is therefore only suitable for 
diesel locomotives). 
89. 
In light of the above considerations, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that: 
a. the relevant upstream market for assessing the proposed acquisition is 
the supply of coal handling services at DBCT; and  
b. the relevant downstream market is the supply of above rail haulage 
services on the Goonyella coal rail system. 
 
 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s).  
In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the following factors 
relevant to Brookfield Rail: 
 
The extent to which sea and road transport are viable substitutes for interstate rail 
transport on the East-West Corridor and in what circumstances, including any 
recent trends. 
 
The extent to which road transport is a viable substitute for rail transport of grain 
and minerals within WA and in what circumstances, including any recent trends. 
 
The extent to which above rail operators are able to switch between the provision 
of bulk rail haulage for grain versus minerals, noting particularly any commercial, 
contractual or regulatory barriers to switching. 
In addition, market participants may wish to comment on the extent to which the 
supply of coal handling services at Abbot Point and Gladstone are close substitutes for 
DBCT. 


 
Page 15 of 28 
Issue of concern: Vertical integration leading to reduction 
in competition between above rail operators that use 
Brookfield Rail 
90. 
The proposed acquisition will result in vertical integration between the long term 
leaseholder of the Brookfield Rail network and the above rail operator Pacific 
National that provides rail haulage services on the Brookfield Rail network.  
91. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition by:  
a. giving Brookfield the ability and incentive to discriminate in favour of Pacific 
National’s above rail haulage services using Brookfield Rail; 
b. giving Brookfield the ability and incentive to increase costs for competitors of 
Pacific National in the provision of above rail haulage services using 
Brookfield Rail; 
c. giving Brookfield access to competitively sensitive information that it can use 
to the benefit of Pacific National; 
d. raising barriers to entry for above rail competitors of Pacific National using 
Brookfield Rail. 
92. 
This could lead to an increase in prices or reduction in service quality in the 
relevant markets involving the supply of above rail haulage services on the 
Brookfield Rail network. 
Ability and incentive to foreclose rivals of Pacific National 
93. 
On the basis of the ACCC’s preliminary view that the relevant upstream market 
is the market for the supply of below rail access to Brookfield Rail’s network, 
Brookfield Rail’s long-term lease over the network gives it substantial market 
power in that market.  
94. 
In this capacity, Brookfield Rail is able to discriminate in favour of Pacific 
National through its access charges and quality of service. This is because it 
contracts directly with above rail operators to provide below rail access (although 
Brookfield Rail may contract with end users to provide access, it will still enter 
into an operational track access agreement with the end user’s nominated above 
rail operator) and is aware of the identity of the above rail operators that it is 
dealing with in its day-to-day operations. 
95. 
Market participants have provided examples of the ways in which Brookfield Rail 
might be able to give preferential treatment to Pacific National, including: 
a. implementing higher access charges for Pacific National’s competitors; 
b. implementing higher access charges to all above rail operators (including 
Pacific National) but engaging in accounting practices between Brookfield 
Rail and Pacific National to minimise the actual cost accruing to Pacific 
National; 


 
Page 16 of 28 
c. requiring higher capital charges4 to enable capacity to be provided to Pacific 
National’s competitors; 
d. allocating a disproportionate amount of premium train paths to Pacific 
National; 
e. rejecting (or being less accommodating to) requests for new train paths or 
variations to existing train paths; 
f. implementing unfavourable and restrictive load tables;5 
g. reducing track speeds under the guise of maintenance; 
h. using construction and maintenance timing to strategically impact the 
services of competitors to Pacific National; 
i. 
using operational issues like network constraints to advantage Pacific 
National trains above competitors’ trains; and 
j. 
facilitating Pacific National bundling below and above rail service offerings, 
including charging lower access charges if haulage services are acquired 
from Pacific National. 
96. 
Brookfield’s ability to discriminate against competitors of Pacific National would 
be weakened if there are available substitutes to the Brookfield rail network for 
moving bulk and intermodal freight in and out of WA.   
97. 
However, as noted previously, no other relevant railway networks exist in WA, 
and the competitive constraint to rail haulage from road and sea transport is 
limited due to high costs and/or slow speeds. 
98. 
It is also implicit that the Brookfield Rail network would not be economically 
feasible to duplicate, since Brookfield Rail is subject to an access regime for 
which the Premier of WA sought NCC certification in 2010. 
99. 
For these reasons, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that there is a limit to the 
amount of switching to other modes of transport that would occur in response to 
an increase in price or decrease in quality of service for below rail access 
services on Brookfield Rail’s network. To the extent that there is switching to sea 
transport, some market participants have submitted that Brookfield may stand to 
benefit from additional revenues through Asciano’s terminal and port operations, 
which would reduce the competitive constraint of such switching. 
100. As a result, above rail operators using Brookfield Rail similarly face limited 
constraint from road and sea-based freight transport providers. 
101. In this context, the ACCC is concerned that:  
a. if Brookfield were to increase Pacific National’s rivals’ access costs relative 
to Pacific National’s, Brookfield may receive greater revenue from Pacific 
                                                 
 
4 Capital charges are a component of the access fee paid by users of Brookfield Rail’s network that is 
intended to reflect the cost to Brookfield Rail of establishing and replacing infrastructure over time.  
5 Load tables set out operational standards in regard to factors including but not limited to axle weight 
limits and locomotive configurations (e.g. the distance between axles or maximum train height or width) 
for a given type of load. 


 
Page 17 of 28 
National’s rivals and, to the extent that this decreases the volumes 
transported by Pacific National’s rivals, Pacific National is likely to receive 
greater revenue from customers switching from their current above rail 
provider to Pacific National; 
b. similarly, Brookfield could decrease Pacific National’s rivals’ quality of 
service relative to Pacific National, resulting in customer switching to Pacific 
National and potentially reducing Brookfield Rail’s costs; and 
c. if Brookfield were to increase all above rail providers’ access costs, it may 
be feasible for Pacific National not to pass on this increase to customers, 
since those costs would effectively be an internal transfer between 
Brookfield and Pacific National, in which cases customers would be likely to 
switch from their current above rail provider to Pacific National.  
102. For these reasons, Brookfield may have the incentive to increase Pacific 
National’s rivals’ access costs or decrease their quality of service, or to increase 
all above rail providers’ access costs. 
103. On this basis, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that, post-acquisition, Brookfield 
would have the ability and incentive to foreclose Pacific National’s competitors in 
the provision of above rail services using Brookfield Rail’s network.  
Access to commercially sensitive information 
104. Market participants have indicated that Brookfield Rail is privy to a wide range of 
commercially sensitive information that, if disclosed to Pacific National, would 
give it a significant competitive advantage. 
105. For example, Brookfield Rail is likely to be privy to: 
a. the routes that are requested by above rail providers, including the specific 
below rail infrastructure to which access is sought; 
b. the times for which access is sought, including a start date for the service; 
c. the nature of the freight being transported; 
d. the types of locomotives and wagons used on services; 
e. the technical specifications of locomotives and wagons; and 
f. on time performance data. 
106. Post-acquisition, any or all of this information would give Pacific National an 
insight into: 
a. the commercial strategies of its competitors; 
b. the performance of its competitors; 
c. the costs faced by its competitors; and 
d. the train structures and technology employed by its competitors. 


 
Page 18 of 28 
107. While some of this information is ultimately effectively publicly available based 
on the actual services run, Brookfield Rail has access to that information well in 
advance of an above rail operator running trains on its network. 
108. As well as Pacific National gaining a competitive advantage by having this 
information, if its competitors were aware – or perceived – that Pacific National 
would obtain this information, they would be deterred from competing vigorously 
with Pacific National to provide above rail services using Brookfield Rail’s 
network. 
109. For these reasons, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition may 
result in Pacific National having access to commercially sensitive information of 
its above rail competitors.  
Barriers to entry and expansion and the effect on competition 
110. The ACCC is concerned that if, post-acquisition, Brookfield has the ability and 
incentive to foreclose Pacific National’s competitors in the provision of above rail 
services using Brookfield Rail’s network and Pacific National has access to 
commercially sensitive information of its above rail competitors, this would have 
a material deterrent effect on new entry to the supply of above rail haulage 
services. 
111. The ACCC is therefore concerned that the acquisition would increase barriers to 
entry to the relevant haulage markets and give Pacific National the ability to 
increase prices or lower its quality of service to end users. 
The WA Access Regime 
112. Brookfield Rail’s ability to discriminate in favour of Pacific National may be 
mitigated to some extent by the presence of the WA Access Regime. Similarly, 
Brookfield Rail’s ability to use commercially sensitive information to the 
competitive advantage of Pacific National may be mitigated by the segregation 
arrangements that the Railways Access Act requires it to have in place.  
113. However, the ACCC notes that the arrangements and the WA Access Regime 
currently operate in an environment where there is no vertical integration, 
meaning that it is not required to address competition concerns arising from 
vertical integration.  
Access agreements 
114. Under the Code: 
a. Brookfield Rail is obliged to negotiate in good faith with access seekers, 
once they submit a proposal for access under the Code. 
b. If agreement cannot be reached, access seekers are able to refer the 
dispute for binding arbitration. 
c. If an access seeker submits a proposal under the Code, Brookfield Rail 
must provide a floor and ceiling price for access charges, including the 
costing principles by which these prices were calculated.  
d. The floor price is the approximate marginal cost of providing access to the 
operator. The ceiling price is the approximate cost of replacing the line with 
a newly constructed line that meets the expected level of service. 


 
Page 19 of 28 
e. The ERA can review the floor and ceiling prices and either approve them or 
determine the prices itself. 
115. Access agreements negotiated or arbitrated under the Code are subject to: 
a. Train Management Guidelines – A framework for the real-time management 
of services to be operated on the rail network to ensure that services are 
operated in a safe, reliable and non-discriminatory manner. The Train 
Management Guidelines are approved by the ERA. 
b. Train Path Policy – A railway operator’s statement in relation to the 
allocation of train paths and the provision of access to train paths that have 
ceased to be used. The Train Path Policy is approved by the ERA. 
Protections against discriminatory conduct 
116. The ACCC notes that there are provisions of the WA Access Regime that may to 
some extent moderate the potential for discriminatory conduct.  
117. The Code contains a general duty for railway owners, in negotiating access 
agreements: 
a. not to unfairly discriminate between access seekers; and 
b. not to unfairly discriminate between the rail operations of an access seeker 
and the rail operations of the railway owner (which includes the rail 
operations of any related body corporate of the railway owner), including in 
the allocation of train paths, the management of train control and operating 
standards.6 
118. The Code also includes guidelines that the railway owner must implement in the 
negotiation of access prices.7 Those guidelines include being consistent in the 
application of pricing principles, whether rail operations are to be carried on by 
the railway owner (or a related body corporate) or another entity. The guidelines 
explain that this means that if different entities access the same “market”, any 
difference in their respective access charges must only reflect a difference 
between them in the costs or risks associated with the provision of the access. 
119. The Railways Access Act prohibits Brookfield from engaging in conduct aimed at 
hindering or preventing access to the Brookfield Rail network.8 
120. In addition, the WA Access Regime includes many requirements relating to the 
standard of service to be provided by Brookfield Rail and the Train Management 
Guidelines and Train Path Policy contain detailed operational requirements for 
Brookfield Rail. 
Segregation arrangements 
121. Separately, the Railways Access Act requires that railway owners segregate 
their access-related functions from their other functions, and in particular that 
they:  
                                                 
 
6 Section 16. 
7 Section 13, schedule 4.  
8 Section 34A. 


 
Page 20 of 28 
a. establish an effective regime to prevent the improper use of confidential 
information relating to access seekers or rail operators; 
b. ensure that their staff involved in access-related functions do not have a 
conflict of interest and do not have regard to the interests of the railway 
owner in a way that is unfair to access seekers or other rail operators; 
c. maintain separate accounts and records for their access-related 
functions. 
122. These obligations may ameliorate concerns that Pacific National may become 
privy to commercially sensitive information of its competitors. 
Adequacy of the access regime 
123. Notwithstanding these various requirements in the WA Access Regime, market 
feedback has strongly indicated that they are inadequate to protect against the 
competition issues arising from the vertical integration that would result from the 
proposed acquisition.  
124. In particular, strong concerns have been raised that the ‘light touch’ model of 
access to Brookfield Rail is not suited to preventing Brookfield from engaging in 
foreclosure strategies in favour of Pacific National. The WA Access Regime 
provides a very wide range of permissible access charges and there is a lack of 
transparency in the access prices that Brookfield Rail charges.  
125. Relevant concerns have been raised by market participants in other forums. For 
example, the ACCC notes the following concerns previously raised by Asciano in 
submissions to the current ERA review of the Code, the NCC consideration of 
certification of the WA Access Regime and the recent Competition Policy 
Review: 
 
As outlined in both Asciano’s previous submission and other parties’ 
submissions the ‘negotiate and arbitrate’ model of access as provided for 
in the Code is flawed due to the uneven bargaining positions of the natural 
monopoly rail infrastructure provider and the users and potential users of 
this infrastructure.9 
 
Given the current Western Australian rail infrastructure ownership structure 
and operating environment the current separation arrangements are 
adequate… However, these arrangements are unlikely to be adequate in 
any future environment where below rail and above rail ownership or 
operation are more closely aligned.10 
 
[In relation to Aurizon Network’s below rail infrastructure in Queensland:] It 
is useful to understand the many and subtle forms of potential 
discrimination when assessing the appropriateness of regulatory 
regimes… The ultimate way of preventing this discrimination is to not have 
vertically integrated monopolists.11 
                                                 
 
9 Asciano, ‘Submission to the ERA Review of the WA Railways Access Code’, 12 June 2015. 
10 Asciano, ‘Submission to the NCC: Certification of the Western Australian Rail Access Regime: Response to the WA 
Government Submission to the NCC’, June 2010. 
11 Asciano, ‘Submission to the Competition Policy Review Issues Paper’, June 2014. 


 
Page 21 of 28 
126. In this context, the ACCC has significant reservations about the adequacy of the 
WA Access Regime to prevent a substantial lessening of competition arising 
from the proposed acquisition. 
127. In any event, the ACCC reiterates its view that the only way to avoid the risks to 
competition that are likely to be created by vertical integration is to avoid the 
creation of a vertically integrated market structure altogether. 
Limited use of Code 
128. The ACCC also considers it significant that no access agreements have been 
entered into under the Code. This may mean that access seekers consider that 
the Code’s mechanisms do not offer sufficient benefits to merit their use. 
However the ACCC acknowledges that the Code would still operate as a “safety 
net” in negotiations between Brookfield Rail and access seekers, and that to this 
extent it may serve a useful function. 
129. In any event, the consequences of access agreements being negotiated outside 
of the Code include that the effectiveness of those provision and protections 
have not been fully tested and that those provisions and protections do not apply 
to current access agreements in any case.  
Potential changes to the WA Access Regime  
130. The ERA is required to undertake a review of the Code on the third anniversary 
of its commencement and every five years thereafter. The Code commenced on 
1 September 2001. 
131. The purpose of the review is to assess the suitability of the provisions of the 
Code to give effect to the Competition Principles Agreement in respect of 
railways to which the Code applies. The Competition Principles Agreement was 
made on 11 April 1995 by the Commonwealth, the States and the Territories as 
part of the National Competition Policy, to provide a framework to allow third 
parties to access nationally significant infrastructure facilities which exhibit 
natural monopoly characteristics and cannot be duplicated economically. 
132. The ERA is currently undertaking its third such review. The review commenced 
on 20 February 2015, when the ERA published an Issues Paper and invited 
submissions. The ERA issued a draft report on 23 September 2015. 
Submissions on the draft report are due on 23 October 2015. 
133. One of the draft report’s recommendations was that the interstate route from 
Kalgoorlie to Kwinana (i.e. Brookfield Rail’s part of the east-west rail corridor) be 
removed from the scope of the WA Access Regime.12 The ACCC notes that if 
this change is accepted by the WA government, this would leave this part of 
Brookfield Rail’s network open for regulation under the National Access Regime. 
134. In addition, Brookfield Rail has proposed revisions to its segregation 
arrangements. The key proposed amendments are the inclusion of: 
a. an annual audit procedure 
b. a dispute resolution process 
c. more detailed non-discrimination provisions 
                                                 
 
12 ERA, Review of the Railways (Access) Code 2000 Draft Report, p. 4. 


 
Page 22 of 28 
d. expanded confidentiality obligations 
e. provisions addressing conflicts of interest of staff and directors 
135. It is implicit in these proposed revisions that the current segregation 
arrangements could be enhanced to provide more protection against the types of 
issues identified above.  
136. The revisions must be approved by the ERA before taking effect. On 18 
September 2015, the ERA invited public comment on the revisions. Submissions 
on the proposed amendments are due by 30 October 2015.  
137. In light of these reviews (and even without these reviews), it is possible that 
changes will be made to the WA Access Regime that would reduce the risk of 
the competition issues identified above to some extent. However, the ACCC 
notes in this regard that: 
a. Those reviews are on-going, meaning that any changes, including their likely 
impact, are currently uncertain. 
b. Those reviews may not be complete during the period that the ACCC is 
considering the proposed acquisition, meaning that their conclusions will be 
unknown in any case at the time that the ACCC makes a decision. 
c. There is no certainty that the final recommendations of the ERA from its 
current review will be implemented. Any changes will need to be 
implemented by the WA Government. In this regard, the ACCC notes that, 
according to the February 2015 Issues Paper published by the ERA, the 
ERA provided the final report from its previous review to the Minister in 
December 2011 and it has not yet been acted upon.13 
138. As paragraph 7.70 of the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines note, while the ACCC takes 
into account government regulation relevant to its competition assessments, as a 
general principle the ACCC does not regard speculation about future alterations 
to the regulatory environment, or the mere ability of government to regulate, as 
an effective competitive constraint. 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
139. In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will result in 
vertical integration between the below rail operator and one of the above rail 
operators, which is likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the 
relevant above rail haulage markets.  
140. The ACCC considers that relying on an access regime to mitigate the 
competitive detriments arising from vertical integration between a monopolist 
and a participant in a related (competitive) market is a second best solution 
compared to preventing such situations of vertical integration in the first place.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
vertical integration of Brookfield Rail arising from the proposed acquisition and the 
potential substantial lessening of competition in related markets for the supply of 
above rail haulage services using Brookfield Rail’s network.   
                                                 
 
13 ERA, ‘Review of the Railways (Access) Code 2000: Issues Paper’, February 2015, page 15. 


 
Page 23 of 28 
In particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
To what extent do market participants share the view that the prevention of vertical 
integration arising from the proposed acquisition is preferable to relying on an 
access regime to address vertical integration issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition? Please explain your views. 
 
Practical examples of how Brookfield Rail could engage in commercial or 
operational conduct that is to the advantage of Pacific National. 
 
The effectiveness of the existing access regime and related regulatory 
arrangements relating to Brookfield Rail in preventing or deterring discriminatory 
conduct by Brookfield Rail. 
 
The extent to which the existing access regime and related regulatory 
arrangements relating to Brookfield Rail have prevented the exercise of market 
power by Brookfield Rail in the past. 
Issue of concern: Vertical integration leading to reduction 
in competition between above rail operators that haul coal 
to DBCT for export 
141. The proposed acquisition will result in vertical integration between the long term 
leaseholder of DBCT and the above rail operator Pacific National that provides 
rail haulage services to DBCT.  
142. Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition by:  
a. giving Brookfield the ability and incentive to discriminate in favour of Pacific 
National’s above rail haulage services using DBCT; 
b. giving Brookfield the ability and incentive to increase costs for competitors of 
Pacific National in the provision of above rail haulage services using DBCT; 
c. giving Brookfield access to competitively sensitive information that it can use 
to the benefit of Pacific National; 
d. raising barriers to entry for above rail competitors of Pacific National using 
DBCT. 
143. This could lead to an increase in prices or reduction in service quality in the 
market for the supply of above rail haulage services on the Goonyella coal rail 
system. 
Ability and incentive to foreclose rivals of Pacific National 
144. In considering whether Brookfield will have the ability and incentive to foreclose 
rivals of Pacific National, the ACCC needs to assess whether Brookfield has 
significant market power in a relevant upstream or downstream market. 
145. Consideration of the infrastructure at DBCT by other regulators and 
governmental authorities is relevant to the ACCC’s assessment of market power 
in the upstream market (the supply of coal handling services at DBCT). 
146. As set out above, the coal handling services at DBCT have been declared for 
third party access. 


 
Page 24 of 28 
147. On 11 July 2011, the Commonwealth Minister certified the DBCT Access 
Regime as an effective access regime and in doing so considered that: 
a. DBCT is a significant infrastructure facility, having regard to its size and 
importance to Queensland’s economy; 
b. The DBCT Access Regime applies to a port, an asset that exhibits natural 
monopoly characteristics and is unlikely to be economically feasible to 
duplicate. 
148. The ACCC considers that the coal handling services provided at DBCT are an 
important input in the coal supply chain. DBCTM’s website refers to DBCT as a 
‘critical component’ in the Bowen Basin export coal supply chain.14 
149. During the ACCC’s market inquiries, market participants described DBCT as a 
monopoly asset. Following engagement with market participants, the ACCC 
considers that the expected competitive constraint from other coal terminals in 
Central Queensland would be limited (for the reasons identified in the market 
definition section at paragraph 88 above). End users in the coal supply chain 
would have a limited ability to export coal from other coal terminals in Central 
Queensland in response to an exercise of market power by the merged entity. 
150. The ACCC therefore considers that Brookfield has a significant degree of market 
power in the supply of coal handling services at DBCT. This market power would 
enable Brookfield to foreclose rivals of Pacific National in downstream markets 
for the supply of above rail haulage services. 
151. Market participants identified a number of potential foreclosure strategies that 
Brookfield could engage in post-acquisition including: 
a. raising access charges to coal producers that use competitors of Pacific 
National for above rail haulage services to DBCT; 
b. cost shifting between Pacific National and DBCTM (Brookfield) or engaging 
in cross-subsidisation; 
c. discrimination in respect of new access and capacity expansion (for 
example, in relation to the timing and allocation of capacity within 
expansions of DBCT); 
d. providing more favourable operating arrangements (such as stockpiling and 
unloading pit allocations); and 
e. the bundling of port and rail capacity. 
152. The foreclosure strategies could be implemented in relation to competitors of 
Pacific National, or end users who contract with competitors of Pacific National. 
153. Market participants also stated that vertical integration can lead to many and 
subtle forms of potential discrimination. The ACCC shares this view that vertical 
integration can lead to forms of discrimination that may be difficult to detect and 
that it may be costly to monitor breaches and seek compensation. 
154. The ACCC recognises the current operational arrangements that are in place at 
DBCT, with the terminal being operated by DBCT PL which is independent of 
                                                 
 
14 http://www.dbctm.com.au/aboutdbct.aspx  


 
Page 25 of 28 
Brookfield. DBCTM therefore does not manage the day-to-day operations or 
maintenance of DBCT. The operational arrangements are set out in the OMC. 
155. However, the ACCC also recognises that the operational arrangements in the 
OMC are contractual in nature. Market participants raised concerns that the 
operational arrangements could be changed by Brookfield in the future and that 
there is no regulatory requirement to maintain this contractual arrangement, 
which was established at privatisation. 
156. Despite the existence of the OMC and operational separation, the ACCC is 
concerned that Brookfield may have some ability to influence operations at 
DBCT, for example, through the Terminal Regulations, which Brookfield can 
change or through other forms of influence as the long term leaseholder at 
DBCT. 
157. In this context, the ACCC is concerned that Brookfield may have the incentive to 
increase access costs or decrease the quality of service to coal producers that 
do not use Pacific National for their above rail haulage to DBCT, because those 
coal producers are likely to switch to Pacific National in response, rather than 
reduce the volumes of coal exported through DBCT. 
158. On this basis, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that, post-acquisition, Brookfield 
would have the ability and incentive to foreclose Pacific National’s competitors in 
the provision of above rail services using Brookfield Rail’s network.  
Access to commercially sensitive information 
159. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will enable Pacific 
National to access commercially sensitive information of its rivals and provide 
Pacific National with a competitive advantage. 
160. Such commercially sensitive information could include: 
a. Information provided to DBCTM under a user agreement or as part of an 
access application for future or increased capacity; 
b. The terms of user agreements themselves.  
161. Market participants raised concerns that access by Pacific National to this 
information would have the potential to place its above rail competitors at a 
disadvantage when competing for new rail haulage contracts, or ad-hoc haulage 
tasks. 
162. The ACCC considers that such access could distort the dynamics of competition 
in the market for the supply of above rail haulage services on the Goonyella coal 
rail system. 
Barriers to entry and expansion and the effect on competition 
163. The ACCC considers that the presence of a vertically integrated entity and the 
mere likelihood that the merged entity would provide preferential treatment to its 
related entities in downstream markets may create a strong deterrent effect on 
potential entrants. This will lead to an increase in barriers to entry and expansion 
in the market for supply of above rail haulage services on the Goonyella coal rail 
system. 
164. The ACCC is therefore concerned that the foreclosure and increase in barriers to 
entry will substantially lessen competition in the market for the supply of above 
rail haulage services on the Goonyella rail system, leading to Pacific National 
increasing prices or decreasing the quality of services to end users. 


 
Page 26 of 28 
The State Access Regime in Queensland 
165. As noted above, the ACCC’s concerns are based on the change to the market 
structure that would arise from the vertical integration between Brookfield as the 
sole supplier of coal handling services at DBCT with Pacific National as a 
supplier of above rail haulage services to DBCT on the Goonyella coal rail 
system. 
166. The Port Services Agreement (PSA) between DBCTM and the State of 
Queensland contains an obligation that DBCTM maintain an Access Undertaking 
with the QCA. The PSA contains a range of obligations on DBCTM in its position 
as the leaseholder of DBCT. However, the PSA is contractual in nature and is 
subject to change. 
167. Brookfield’s ability to engage in foreclosure strategies or share commercially 
sensitive information with Pacific National may be mitigated by the DBCT Access 
Regime. 
168. The DBCT Access Regime contains a number of anti-discrimination provisions. 
169. The QCA Act contains obligations on access providers of a declared service not 
to unfairly differentiate between access seekers. However, there are provisions 
that allow the access provider to discriminate in certain circumstances.15 
170. The QCA Act also contains pricing principles in relation to the price of access to 
a service that the price should not allow a related access provider to set terms 
and conditions that discriminate in favour of the downstream operations of a 
related body corporate of the access provider.16 
171. The 2010 access undertaking, which sets out the terms and conditions on which 
third parties may gain access to DBCT’s services, includes reference tariffs and 
a Standard Access Agreement. 
172. The 2010 access undertaking requires DBCTM to negotiate with access seekers 
for access to capacity, sets out the processes and terms and conditions upon 
which DBCTM will negotiate, and provides for a binding dispute resolution 
process.17 
173. The Terminal Regulations provide that DBCT will operate on a cargo assembly 
basis and that vessels must be berthed and loaded in their order of arrival, such 
that the operator, DBCT PL should not discriminate as between above rail 
operators or terminal users.18 
Ongoing declared nature of DBCT 
174. Part 12 of the QCA Act provides that the handling of coal at DBCT is taken to be 
a declared service for a period of 10 years from 8 September 2010. The 
declaration may however be extended or revoked upon the recommendation of 
the QCA and there is therefore no certainty as to the continuing declared nature 
of the services at DBCT. There is scope for Brookfield to seek to have the 
declaration set aside or not renewed. 
                                                 
 
15 Section 100 QCA Act 
16 Section 168A QCA Act. 
17 Clause 5, Access Undertaking. 
18 Terminal Regulations, Regulation 2.2. 


 
Page 27 of 28 
QCA review of Access Undertaking 
175. As noted above, DBCTM has provided a revised access undertaking to the QCA. 
176. The timing and outcome for the QCA’s review of the revised access undertaking 
is at this stage uncertain and will not be finalised during the ACCC’s review of 
the proposed acquisition. 
Adequacy of the access regime 
177. Market participants identified a number of reasons why the state access regime 
in Queensland may not be sufficient to prevent a substantial lessening of 
competition arising from vertical integration following the proposed acquisition. 
These reasons included, but were not limited to: 
a. The uncertainty around whether the services at DBCT will continue to be 
declared; 
b. The near-term expiry of the current QCA Access Undertaking; 
c. The inherent difficulty in monitoring and enforcing any ring-fencing 
arrangements; and 
d. The inability of third party access regimes to detect and correct problems 
relating to day-to-day forms of operational discrimination. 
178. As with the first issue of concern, the ACCC considers that relying on an access 
regime to mitigate the competitive detriments arising from vertical integration 
between a monopolist and a participant in a related (competitive) market is a 
second best solution compared to preventing such situations of vertical 
integration in the first place. Where such competition concerns arise from vertical 
integration (as is the case with the proposed acquisition), it is preferable to 
prevent vertical integration arising rather than relying on an access regime.    
ACCC’s preliminary views 
179. In summary, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will result in a 
significant change to the market structure in the relevant markets in Queensland 
that will permit the merged entity to engage in conduct that will lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of above rail 
haulage services on the Goonyella coal rail system 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
vertical integration of DBCT arising from the proposed acquisition and the potential 
substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of above rail haulage 
services on the Goonyella coal rail system.   
In particular market participants may wish to comment on the following, and in each 
instance provide specific practical examples to support any response or concerns 
identified: 
 
To what extent do market participants share the view that the prevention of vertical 
integration arising from the proposed acquisition is preferable to relying on an 
access regime to address vertical integration issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition? Please explain your views. 
 
Where the long term leaseholder of DBCT does not have direct contractual 
arrangements with above rail operators on the Goonyella coal rail system, please 
explain how any forms of discrimination or preferential treatment would arise or 


 
Page 28 of 28 
how the contractual arrangements would prevent discrimination or preferential 
treatment. 
 
With reference to contractual arrangements in place in the Goonyella coal supply 
chain (for example the long term user agreements that DBCTM has with mining 
companies) please identify how Brookfield/DBCTM would be able to engage in 
price discrimination or any other forms of discrimination with users of DBCT who 
do not use Pacific National as an above rail haulage provider. Are there aspects of 
the supply chain that would prevent discrimination from arising? If so, please 
explain. 
 
Please identify how the presence of DBCT PL as the operator of DBCT addresses 
concerns about discrimination in the provision of coal handling services. How could 
DBCTM influence operations even with the continuing role of DBCT PL as operator 
of DBCT. 
ACCC's future steps 
180. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
181. As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 4 November 2015 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
182. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 17 December 2015. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
