 
Page 1 of 8 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
13 May 2019 
Knauf - proposed acquisitions of USG and AWI 
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 28 March 2019, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the 
proposed acquisitions by Gebr. Knauf KG (Knauf) of USG Corporation 
(USG) and Armstrong World Industries Pty Ltd (AWI) (the proposed 
acquisitions), after accepting a section 87B undertaking.  
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisitions, taking into account 
the undertaking, would be unlikely to contravene section 50 of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act).  
3. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisitions in relation to the supply of the following products in Australia:  
 plasterboard 
 fixed suspended ceilings  
 plaster compounds and treatments 
 metal profiles used in wall and fixed suspended ceiling applications, 
and 
 modular suspended ceilings. 
5. 
In Australia, USG operates through a joint venture with Boral International 
Pty Limited and Boral Building Materials Pty Limited (USG-Boral). Knauf 
and USG-Boral both supply each of the products listed above in 
Australia. AWI supplies modular suspended ceilings in Australia. 


 
Page 2 of 8 
6. 
The section 87B undertaking offered by Knauf and accepted by the 
ACCC requires Knauf to divest its interest in the Australasian business of 
USG-Boral to an ACCC approved purchaser. 
7. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the ACCC’s 
decision. 
8. 
This and other public competition assessments are subject to the 
following qualifications: 
 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and 
so the analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not 
necessarily reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even 
where that other transaction may involve the same or a related 
market. 
 
As assessments are brief and do not refer to confidential 
information provided by the parties or other market participants, 
assessments do not set out all of the issues and information 
considered by the ACCC, nor all of the analysis and reasons of the 
ACCC.  
The parties and the transactions 
The acquirer: Knauf 
9. 
Knauf is headquartered in Germany and is an international manufacturer 
of plasterboards, plasters and accessories, ceilings, insulation, paints, 
floor screed and floor systems, construction equipment and related 
products.  
10. In Australia, Knauf is a manufacturer of plasterboards, fixed suspended 
ceilings and related products such as plaster compounds and metal 
profiles, and an importer of modular suspended ceilings and insulation 
products.  
The targets: USG and AWI 
11. USG is headquartered in the United States and is an international 
manufacturer and supplier of plasterboard, acoustic ceiling tiles and 
related products.   
12. In Australia, USG is active though its 50 per cent share in USG-Boral. 
USG does not have any other interests in Australia apart from its stake in 
USG-Boral. 
13. In Australia, USG-Boral manufactures plasterboards, fixed suspended 
ceilings and related products, and imports modular suspended ceilings 
and insulation products. 
14. AWI is a subsidiary of Armstrong World Industries, Inc., a manufacturer of 
ceilings and walls, headquartered in the United States. It supplies 


 
Page 3 of 8 
modular suspended ceilings in Australia. Unlike Knauf and USG-Boral, it 
does not have any manufacturing facilities in Australia. 
The transactions 
15. On 11 June 2018, Knauf and USG announced that they had entered into 
an agreement pursuant to which Knauf would acquire all of the 
outstanding shares of USG in a transaction valued at approximately 
USD$7 billion (proposed USG acquisition).  
16. Separately, on 20 November 2017, Armstrong World Industries, Inc. 
announced that it had entered into an agreement with Knauf to sell its 
Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia-Pacific businesses to Knauf for an 
estimated US $330 million (proposed AWI acquisition).  
17. The ACCC was notified of both acquisitions at the same time and 
reviewed the proposed acquisitions together. 
Review timeline 
18. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in 
this matter.  
Date 
Event 
19/09/2018 
 
13/11/2018 
 
 
27/03/2019 
 
28/03/2019 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process Guidelines. 
 
Former provisional date for announcement of findings delayed to 
allow merger parties more time to provide additional information. 
 
ACCC received further information from merger parties. 
 
ACCC decision not to oppose the proposed acquisitions, subject to a 
section 87B undertaking accepted by the ACCC. 
19. The total elapsed time from start to finish was just over 6 months.  
However, the total period net of time taken by the parties to submit 
information or documents was 39 business days. This is because the 
ACCC’s review was suspended for a long period to allow the parties to 
consider their position and provide additional information. 
Market inquiries 
20. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry 
participants, including competitors, customers, input suppliers, industry 
bodies and other interested parties.  
Areas of overlap 
21. In Australia, Knauf and USG-Boral overlap in the supply of plasterboard, 
fixed suspended ceilings, modular suspended ceilings, plaster 
compounds and treatments, and metal profiles.  


 
Page 4 of 8 
22. In addition, Knauf, USG-Boral and AWI overlap in the supply of modular 
suspended ceilings. 
23. Plasterboards, or gypsum boards, are non-load-bearing boards used for 
dry construction. They are used for the internal cladding on buildings, 
including walls (such as gypsum wallboard and drywall) and ceilings 
(such as ceiling sheets). 
24. Fixed suspended ceilings are constructed predominantly from 
plasterboard, and are used in both residential and commercial buildings. 
They differ from modular suspended ceilings in that they are screwed into 
the ceiling structure from below, rather than loosely fitted into a grid from 
above. 
25. Plaster compounds and treatments, including products such as sealants 
and adhesives, are used, with paper or fibre joint tape, to seal joints 
between sheets of drywall and to create a base for paint on interior walls. 
They are often purchased as accessory products to plasterboard. 
26. Metal profiles are underlying steel constructions (studs, frames and 
battens) used in wall and ceiling applications which are commonly seen 
in offices and large residential buildings. Ceiling tiles and plasterboards 
are usually screwed into metal profiles.  
27. Modular suspended ceilings are ceilings comprised of a metal “grid” that 
is fixed to the building’s structural ceiling, with tiles or planks made from a 
range of materials (often mineral fibre) laid into this grid from above. They 
provide easy access to the technical equipment in the ceiling, and are 
generally used in commercial or office buildings. 
Competition analysis 
28. For the purpose of its competition analysis, the ACCC considered there 
to be separate markets for the supply of each of the overlapping 
products. This was consistent with feedback from market participants that 
each of these products was not substitutable with other products as they 
serve different purposes and customers would be unlikely to switch from 
one to the other in response to an increase in price or reduction in quality.  
29. Within each of these product markets, the proposed acquisitions would 
result in consolidation of close competitors and provide the merged entity 
with a significant market share (after taking into consideration USG’s 
stake in USG-Boral).  
Plasterboard and fixed suspended ceilings 
30. In this section, we primarily discuss plasterboard. However, fixed 
suspended ceilings are made out of plasterboard material, and market 
feedback indicated that competitive conditions in the supply of fixed 
suspended ceilings are very similar to those in the supply of plasterboard 
more generally. 


 
Page 5 of 8 
31. The ACCC considered that Knauf and USG-Boral compete closely in the 
supply of plasterboard in Australia. They are the only Australian 
manufacturers of plasterboard besides CSR Limited (CSR) and BGC 
Australia (BGC).  BGC primarily sells to customers on the west coast of 
Australia. The combined market share of Knauf and USG-Boral would be 
around 50 per cent for each of plasterboard and fixed suspended 
ceilings. 
32. The ACCC considered that imports would not impose sufficient constraint 
on Knauf and USG-Boral post-acquisition, including because 
plasterboard is fragile and expensive to transport. As plasterboard is a 
low margin product, these high transport costs significantly limit the 
viability of imports. 
33. Market feedback indicated that distributors are typically aligned to one of 
the existing Australian plasterboard manufacturers, and that in addition to 
transport costs, they are unwilling to purchase imports because of 
warranty and quality issues, and existing suppliers’ strong brand 
reputation. 
34. The ACCC also noted the lack of entry or expansion in this market since 
Knauf’s entry into Australia in 2011 and that this entry was via acquisition 
when it acquired Lafarge Plasterboard. There has been no organic new 
entry and therefore the ACCC was concerned that potential new 
suppliers would face substantial barriers to entry, including the significant 
costs of building a manufacturing plant, developing a distribution network 
and establishing credibility with customers as a viable alternative 
supplier. 
35. On the east coast, BGC currently has no manufacturing facilities and 
limited or no distribution facilities, so supply is dominated by Knauf and 
USG-Boral with CSR as the only other major supplier. The proposed 
acquisition, therefore, would reduce the number of major suppliers on the 
east coast from three to two. BGC would face significant barriers to 
expansion, including the cost of building facilities, in the eastern states.  
36. The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition may enable Knauf to 
increase prices or decrease service levels. The ACCC also considered 
the proposed acquisitions may increase the likelihood of coordinated 
conduct given the fairly uniform nature of products, the similarity of 
market shares and market participants across related product markets, 
and the repeat interaction by suppliers across those markets. 
Plaster compounds and treatments 
37. The ACCC also considered that the proposed acquisition may enable 
Knauf to increase prices or decrease service levels in the supply of 
plaster compounds and treatments. It may also increase the risk of 
coordinated effects in the supply of these products. 
38. The combined market share of Knauf and USG-Boral for plaster 
compounds and treatments would be around 50 per cent. 


 
Page 6 of 8 
39. Market inquiries indicated that plaster compounds and treatments are 
cheaper and easier to import than plasterboard, with Knauf and 
USG-Boral facing competition from CSR and Proplaster Products 
Australia Pty Ltd (Pro Plaster) on at least the east coast of Australia.  
40. However, customers indicated that they would be unlikely to purchase 
plaster compounds and treatments from a supplier other than the 
manufacturer that supplies their plasterboard, as this would prevent them 
from receiving the plasterboard manufacturers’ offer of “full system” 
warranties and bundled discounts. The ACCC considered this affects the 
ability of competitors that do not supply plasterboard (e.g. Pro Plaster) to 
effectively compete against Knauf and USG-Boral for the supply of 
plaster compounds and treatments. 
Metal profiles 
41. While they are two of the four largest suppliers in Australia, Knauf and 
USG-Boral have a smaller combined market share for metal profiles than 
for the other overlapping products. However, USG-Boral also holds a 50 
per cent interest in Rondo Building Services Pty Ltd (Rondo), the largest 
supplier of metal profiles in Australia.  
42. Studco Building Systems, the only remaining significant supplier of metal 
profiles in Australia, holds a substantially smaller market share than 
Rondo, Knauf or USG-Boral.  
43. Market feedback suggested that constraint from imports is likely stronger 
for metal profiles than for many of the other overlapping products, as 
metal profiles are primarily internally fitted and do not need to meet as 
many aesthetic or durability standards. However, the ACCC formed the 
view that the potential threat from imports would not be sufficient to 
constrain the market power of Knauf post-acquisition. 
Modular suspended ceilings 
44. The ACCC’s review indicated that AWI and USG-Boral are the market 
leaders and close competitors in the supply of modular suspended 
ceilings in Australia, with Knauf a smaller but still significant competitor. 
The combined market share of Knauf, USG-Boral and AWI would be well 
over 50 per cent. The next largest competitor is CSR, which has a 
substantially smaller market share than either AWI or USG-Boral. 
45. Unlike the other overlapping products, modular suspended ceilings are 
almost entirely imported into Australia, with a number of overseas-based 
importers entering the Australian market in the past five years. However, 
to date these new entrants have not obtained substantial sales volumes. 
46. The ACCC considered that it is difficult for customers to switch away from 
the major suppliers, because potential new importers suffer from 
perceived issues regarding product quality and warranties, and because 
customers tend to require suppliers with local distribution channels. 
47. The ACCC concluded that, due to Knauf’s relatively small market share, 
its acquisition of AWI alone would not have been likely to substantially 


 
Page 7 of 8 
lessen competition. However, the ACCC concluded that the combination 
of the proposed USG acquisition and the proposed AWI acquisition would 
have led to a highly concentrated market and increased likelihood of price 
increases.  
Conclusion 
48. The ACCC concluded that, without the undertaking, the proposed 
acquisitions would be likely to substantially lessen competition in the 
supply of each of plasterboard, fixed suspended ceilings, plaster 
compounds and treatments, metal profiles and modular suspended 
ceilings. 
Undertaking 
49. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns, Knauf provided a 
divestiture undertaking to the ACCC. This undertaking requires Knauf to 
divest its interest in the Australasian business of USG-Boral (divestiture 
interest) to an ACCC approved purchaser. 
50. At the time of accepting the undertaking, the ACCC approved Boral 
International Pty Limited and Boral Building Materials Pty Limited or its 
related bodies corporate as an approved purchaser of the divestiture 
interest.  
51. The undertaking places obligations on Knauf to: 
 
ensure the approved purchaser has all the necessary assets and 
rights to compete effectively with Knauf in the relevant product 
markets 
 
maintain the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and 
goodwill of the business to be divested prior to divestiture including 
by appointing and maintaining an ACCC approved independent 
manager to oversee the divestiture interest until it is sold to the 
approved purchaser, and  
 
provide for the effective oversight of its compliance with the 
undertaking, including by appointing and maintaining an ACCC 
approved independent auditor to monitor its compliance with the 
undertaking. 
52. The purpose of the undertaking is to create or strengthen a viable, 
effective, stand-alone, independent and long term competitor in the 
relevant product markets. 
53. If Knauf does not sell the divestiture interest to an approved purchaser 
within the required timeframe, then Knauf must divest certain other 
assets. 
54. The undertaking resolves the ACCC’s competition concerns by removing 
the competitive overlap between Knauf and USG-Boral in Australia and 


 
Page 8 of 8 
ensuring that the purchaser will remain as a competitor to Knauf in the 
future. 
Conclusion 
55. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed 
acquisitions of USG and AWI by Knauf, taking into account the 
undertaking, would not be likely to have the effect of substantially 
lessening competition in any market in Australia. 
