 
Page 1 of 18 
 
Statement of Issues 
25 July 2019 
 ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp 
Liquid Terminals Australia Pty Ltd  
Purpose 
1. 
ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd (ANZ Terminals) proposes to acquire GrainCorp Liquid 
Terminals Australia Pty Ltd (GLT).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition;  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry; 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues give preliminary views and do not refer to confidential 
information provided by the parties or other market participants, therefore they 
may not be a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits 
acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. 
Issues of concern 
6. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will reduce the number of 
major port-side bulk liquid storage providers in various locations around 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 2 of 18 
Australia. ANZ Terminals and GLT are two large suppliers of port-side bulk liquid 
storage in an already concentrated industry. They overlap in the supply of port-
side bulk liquid storage for one or more of edible oils, tallow, non-flammable 
industrial chemicals, base oils and non-fuel petroleum products in each of New 
South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. 
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition by increasing ANZ Terminal’s ability to raise 
prices and or decrease service levels, due to the reduction in competitors in an 
already concentrated market. 
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
The extent to which containerised storage and transport, or inland storage 
facilities could be used instead of port-side bulk liquid storage 
 
The nature of any barriers to new entrants commencing supply of port-side 
bulk liquid storage services 
 
The competitive options for customers in New South Wales, Victoria, South 
Australia and Queensland. 
9. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
10. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 
8 August 2019. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: ANZ Terminals GLT - attention Yak Wang/Annelise Caplan. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers over the telephone or 
in person, or have any questions about this Statement of Issues, please contact 
Yak Wang on 03 9290 6978 or Annelise Caplan on 03 9910 9451.  
11. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on Thursday, 17 October 2019, 
however, this timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in 
relation to timing and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit 
the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
12. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 3 of 18 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
13. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
14. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
9 May 2019 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed acquisition
23 May 2019 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties 
25 July 2019 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining 
preliminary competition concerns 
8 August 2019 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties 
in response to the Statement of Issues 
17 October 2019 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s decision 
The parties 
The acquirer: ANZ Terminals 
15. 
ANZ Terminals is a wholly owned subsidiary of Helios Investments Australia Pty 
Ltd, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hyperion Investments Australia Pty 
Ltd (Hyperion).  
16. 
ANZ Terminals provides bulk liquid storage services, specialising in the storage 
and handling of bulk liquid edible oils and fats, petroleum products and industrial 
chemicals for third party customers. 
17. 
ANZ Terminals operates five terminals across Australia at Port Botany in New 
South Wales, Geelong and Coode Island in Victoria, and Pelican Point and 
Osborne in South Australia.  
The target: GrainCorp Liquid Terminals 
18. 
GrainCorp Liquid Terminals (GLT) is a wholly owned subsidiary of GrainCorp 
Commodity Management (Holdings) Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of 
GrainCorp Limited (GNC). The business of GLT includes activities across the 
edible oils and fats supply chain.  


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 4 of 18 
19. 
GLT stores and handles the bulk liquid requirements for GNC, as well as 
providing these services to third party customers for edible oils and fats, 
petroleum products and industrial chemicals. 
20. 
GLT operates eight terminals across Australia, including Port Kembla in New 
South Wales, Coode Island and North Laverton (inland facility) in Victoria, 
Pinkenba in Queensland (two terminals at this location), Largs Bay in Adelaide, 
Devonport in Tasmania and Fremantle in Western Australia. 
The proposed transaction 
21. 
On 4 March 2019, the parties signed a Share Purchase Agreement in which ANZ 
Terminals agreed to purchase GLT (the bulk liquid storage business of GNC) for 
approximately $350 million.1 GLT will retain ownership of its New Zealand bulk 
liquid terminals. 
22. 
As part of the transaction, GNC will enter into a Long-Term Storage Agreement 
(LTSA) with ANZ Terminals under which GNC will be able to obtain liquid 
storage and ancillary services from ANZ Terminals. 
23. 
ANZ Terminals have offered an undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act to 
divest its Osborne terminal at the Port of Adelaide aimed at addressing potential 
competition concerns in South Australia. The proposed undertaking is discussed 
further at paragraph 93. 
Industry background 
Bulk liquid supply chain 
24. 
Storage providers offer intermediate storage and handling services for bulk liquid 
storage and then facilitate the redistribution of these products to smaller storage 
terminals at a customer’s own facilities. 
25. 
In addition to storing and handling bulk liquids, storage providers may provide 
ancillary services. This includes product blending, product bleaching, heating, 
drumming, nitrogen sparging and blanketing, and waste disposal.  
26. 
Storage tanks are generally dedicated to a single customer, who will have 
exclusive use of that storage tank. Bulk liquid is transported by road tanker 
between the storage facility and the customer’s premises, whereas smaller 
volumes are stored in the customer’s own on-site storage tanks.  
27. 
The bulk liquid storage and handling industry is in effect a warehousing business 
with operations in ports where import, export and the distribution of product takes 
place. 
28. 
The diagram below illustrates the key stages of the bulk liquid storage supply 
chain. 
                                               
 
1 http://www.graincorp.com.au/_literature_247987/GrainCorp_-_Sale_of_Australian_Liquid_Terminals 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 5 of 18 
Figure 1: Bulk liquids supply chain 
 
Types of bulk liquid 
29. 
The types of liquids stored in bulk liquid storage terminals include: 
a) Edible oils: derived from nuts, seeds and other vegetable materials and 
produced for products such as sunflower oil and canola oil; 
b) Tallow: produced by rendering animal by-products and predominantly used 
for soaps, cosmetics and pharmaceutical ingredients; 
c) Flammable industrial chemicals: such as ethanol, used in the 
pharmaceuticals, food, petroleum and beverage industries; 
d) Non-flammable industrial chemicals: such as solvent 150 and solvent 200, 
used in the cosmetics, cleaning products and pharmaceutical industries; 
e) Petroleum products: such as bitumen and paraffin; 
f) Base oils: which is a type of petroleum product derived from refining crude 
oil or through chemical synthesis and used to manufacture products such 
as explosives, lubricating greases and motor oils;  
g) Fuel products: such as diesel, biodiesel and gasoline; and 
h) Molasses: refined from sugarcane and generally used in the industrial and 
agricultural industries. 
Areas of overlap 
30. 
Currently, ANZ Terminals and GLT are two of the largest port-side bulk liquid 
storage providers in Australia, each operating in a number of states. 
31. 
As set out in the table below, market feedback show that ANZ Terminals and 
GLT overlap in the storage of edible oils, tallow, non-flammable industrial 
chemicals, base oils and non-fuel petroleum products (Overlap Products), at 
various locations. ACCC notes that Table 1 is not an exhaustive list of products 
stored by each storage provider at each location.


 
Page 6 of 18 
Table 1: Port-side storage product and geographic overlap based on market feedback (Overlap Products highlighted) 
 
ANZ Terminals 
GrainCorp Liquid 
Terminals 
Stolt Nielsen 
Anchor Tank 
Gordon Brandon T/A 
Brandon Molasses 
New South 
Wales 
Port Botany 
- Base oils 
- Industrial chemicals 
- Petroleum-derived 
products  
Port Kembla 
- Base oils  
Newcastle 
- Fuel products 
 
N/A  
Erskinville 
- Molasses 
 
Victoria 
Port of Melbourne 
- Flammable industrial 
chemicals 
- Non-flammable 
industrial chemicals 
- 
Edible oils 
- 
Tallow 
- 
Base oils 
Geelong 
- Petroleum-derived 
products  
- Flammable Industrial 
chemicals 
- Non-flammable 
industrial chemicals 
- Fuel products 
 
Port of Melbourne 
- Non-flammable 
industrial chemicals  
- Edible oils 
- Tallow 
- Base oils 
 
Port of Melbourne 
- Flammable industrial 
chemicals 
- Non-flammable 
industrial chemicals 
- Base oil and or 
Petroleum-derived 
products 
Port of Melbourne 
- Tallow 
- Edible oils  
Port of Melbourne 
- Molasses 
- Non-flammable 
industrial chemicals 
(limited) 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia Pty Ltd 
 
Page 7 of 18 
 
ANZ Terminals 
Graincorp Liquid 
Terminals 
Stolt Nielsen 
Anchor Tank 
Gordon Brandon T/A 
Brandon Molasses 
South 
Australia 
Osborne, Adelaide2 
- Non-flammable 
industrial chemicals 
- Flammable industrial 
chemicals  
- Tallow 
- Petroleum-derived 
products  
Pelican Point 
- Fuel products 
Largs Bay, Adelaide 
- Non-flammable 
industrial chemicals  
- Tallow 
- Petroleum-derived 
products   
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Tasmania 
N/A 
Devonport 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Queensland3
-  
Pinkenba 
- Fuel products 
- Edible oils  
- Tallow  
- Non-flammable 
industrial chemicals  
Port Alma 
- Fuel products  
- Flammable and or non-
flammable industrial 
chemicals  
N/A 
N/A 
                                               
 
2 Possible subject of divestment. 
3 Although ANZ Terminals does not currently supply bulk liquid storage services in Queensland, some customers may be able to switch between other east 
coast locations and Brisbane 


 
Page 8 of 18 
32. 
GLT also operates bulk liquid storage facilities in Tasmania and Western 
Australia. ANZ Terminals does not currently operate in these locations (or 
Queensland – further discussion on competition between east coast states is 
below). 
33. 
The ACCC notes that: 
a) ANZ Terminals supplies storage services for flammable products and GLT 
is currently not able to store flammable products at most facilities and is 
unlikely to be able to do so in the future; and 
b) GLT stores and handles the bulk liquid requirements for GNC, using a 
portion of its storage capacity for its own needs. 
Therefore, ANZ Terminals and GLT do not compete for some of the bulk liquids 
stored at their facilities. However, they currently overlap in the supply of bulk 
liquid storage of a range of liquids to third parties in New South Wales, Victoria 
and South Australia. 
34. 
In New South Wales and Victoria, both ANZ Terminals and GLT provide storage 
for base oils. Market feedback indicates that no other storage provider in these 
locations provides storage for base oils. 
35. 
Both GLT and ANZ Terminals store non-flammable industrial chemicals, edible 
oils, tallow and base oils at the Port of Melbourne in Victoria. The ACCC 
understands that at the Port of Melbourne, Anchor Tank stores edible oils and 
tallow, and Stolt Nielsen (Stolt) predominantly stores industrial chemicals.  
36. 
In South Australia, both ANZ Terminals and GLT provide storage for some of the 
Overlap Products. There are no other storage providers operating in this state 
that the ACCC is aware of. 
37. 
After the acquisition, the merged entity will be the largest storage provider for 
non-flammable industrial chemicals, edible oils, tallow and base oils in each of 
New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. 
Other industry participants 
38. 
The ACCC understands there are some additional suppliers of bulk liquid 
storage in some locations that provide storage for products other than the 
Overlap Products, for example, fuels and molasses. Market feedback show that 
customers do not consider these bulk liquid storage providers (such as Vopak 
and Brandon Molasses) to be close competitors to the merger parties. 
39. 
There are also a number of inland facilities providing bulk liquid storage in each 
state not shown in the table. As discussed at paragraph 51 below, market 
feedback indicates that inland facilities are generally not a close substitute for 
port-side bulk liquid storage. 
Market definition 
40. 
The ACCC’s starting point for defining relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 9 of 18 
actually or potentially supplied by the merger parties.  The ACCC then considers 
what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide a 
significant source of constraint on the merged entity. 
41. 
Market feedback show that the needs of each individual customer can differ 
significantly depending on the product stored, volume, end use, location of 
customer, the infrastructure at the customer’s facilities, and other factors. This 
means that the transport and storage options available may differ on a customer 
by customer basis.  
Product dimension  
42. 
Each type of bulk liquid, including non-flammable industrial chemicals, edible 
oils, tallow and base oils requires a different type of storage tank and 
infrastructure. For example, tallow is low volume, and is therefore stored in small 
tanks with some form of heating to ensure that the liquids do not solidify. 
Therefore, a tank storing tallow may not be suitable for edible oils or other types 
of liquids. 
43. 
In addition, the storage requirements for industrial chemicals differ depending on 
whether the chemical is flammable or not. Flammable chemicals require 
stainless steel or carbon tanks with an internal tank lining, fire suppression 
systems, separation distances to adjacent tanks, and electrical flame proofing 
under strict Australian standards. Conversely, non-flammable chemicals have 
less strict statutory regulations, and can be stored in tanks which are located at 
short distances from each other. 
44. 
Substitutability of storage tanks may be asymmetric. In some circumstances, it 
may be possible to store a liquid in a tank that was designed to store a different 
category of liquid. For example, it is possible to store non-flammable chemicals 
in tanks designed for flammable chemicals. However, significant investment in 
infrastructure to upgrade facilities would be required in some circumstances, for 
example, to store flammable liquids in tanks currently used for non-flammable 
liquids.  
45. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that tanks used to store: 
a) fuel products are not close substitutes for the storage of the Overlap 
Products 
b) Overlap Products are not close substitutes for the storage of flammable 
products 
c) flammable chemicals may be substitutable for the storage of Overlap 
Products in some circumstances.  
46. 
The ACCC’s review is focused on the overlap between ANZ Terminals and GLT 
in the supply of bulk liquid storage of edible oils, tallow, non-flammable industrial 
chemicals, base oils and non-fuel petroleum products. It may be appropriate to 
define separate markets for each category of liquid. However, this will not affect 
the competition analysis and has not been considered further in this Statement 
of Issues. 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 10 of 18 
Containerised storage / inland facilities are separate markets 
Containerised storage  
47. 
There are a number of containerised options for the transport and storage of 
liquids including: 
a) ISO-tanks, which are large stainless steel pressure vessels held within 20-
foot rectangular frames that are transported like a shipping container. ISO-
tanks range in capacity between 20m3 and 26m3 depending on the cargo.  
b) Flexi-bags, which are multi-ply liquid bladders made from various plastics 
(generally poly-ethylene). Flexi-bags generally range in capacity from 10m3 
to 24m3, and are designed to transport and hold non-hazardous materials. 
c) Intermediate Bulk Containers (IBCs), which typically have capacity to store 
450 litres up to 3,000 litres (or 3m3 in volume). 
d) Drums, are either metal or plastic, which provides storage for products such 
as low grade tallow or edible oils. Drums range in size from 30 litres to 
220 litres in capacity. 
48. 
Market participants generally suggested that these containerised storage options 
are only used for the storage of smaller volumes of liquid, as they are more 
economical than leasing a larger bulk liquid storage tank. As such, the ACCC 
understands that for customers importing large volumes of specific bulk liquid 
products, larger tanks are the most viable option.  
49. 
Additionally, feedback from the market indicated that customers would need to 
change their shipping infrastructure and supply chains in order to accommodate 
alternative storage methods such as containerised storage. This includes 
changing the importing and exporting facilities in other countries, which are 
currently set up to receive or load liquids into ships in bulk. Therefore, customers 
can face additional costs and barriers to switching from bulk liquid storage to 
containerised liquid storage. 
50. 
While there may be some customers who can switch to alternative storage 
methods, including containerised storage, the ACCC understands that there are 
customers that require port-side bulk liquid storage that do not view 
containerised storage as a viable alternative. 
Inland storage facilities 
51. 
There are bulk liquid storage facilities that are located inland (inland storage 
facility). The ACCC understands that for some storage customers, inland 
storage facilities may be an alternative to port-side bulk liquid storage. However, 
whether to store products at an inland storage facility or port-side ultimately 
depends on the individual customer’s needs, such as the product, volume, 
customer location, and the customer’s on-site storage capacity. 
52. 
Market feedback has indicated that inland storage facilities generally hold 
smaller volumes than port-side bulk liquid storage terminals, and tend to be used 
for slower moving products. Therefore, customers importing larger volumes do 
not view them as close substitutes to port-side bulk liquid storage facilities. 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 11 of 18 
53. 
Therefore, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that containerised transport and 
inland facilities are not close substitutes to port-side bulk liquid storage for most 
port-side bulk liquid storage customers. 
Geographic dimension of market 
54. 
Feedback from the market generally indicated that customers rely on storage 
providers with terminal access, and are limited to terminals at one port, or ports 
located in a single state. The ACCC understands that the requirement to have 
access to a particular port or ports depends on the customer and the relative 
transportation costs to their warehouse or manufacturing sites.  
55. 
Market feedback shows that for most customers they would incur substantially 
greater costs importing a product to a port in an interstate location, as the costs 
of using land transport are typically quite high and it is more complex logistically. 
Furthermore, there may be a greater chance of delay and increased handling 
risks during road transportation. 
56. 
However, market feedback also suggested that some customers view terminals 
along the east coast as viable locations for bulk liquid storage. These customers 
generally have smaller volumes and have multiple customers or manufacturing 
locations in the eastern states. The ACCC understands that these customers 
may use the competitive tension between the merger parties’ terminals in the 
different east coast states during contract negotiations. 
57. 
The ACCC has not yet reached a final view on the geographic dimension of the 
bulk liquid storage market and is still considering whether switching between 
storage providers along the eastern seaboard is viable for some customers. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
Using different storage modes 
1. Please outline the reasons why you use a port-side bulk liquid storage facility. In 
responding to this question, please identify the type and volume (cubic metres or 
tonnes per year) of the products that you store at the port-side bulk liquid storage 
facility. For each product, please identify the size of the tank(s) used. 
2. Have you explored options other than port-side bulk liquid storage? If so, please 
identify them and outline whether you can/cannot use them to store your product(s) 
and explain the main reasons why. If possible, please provide the estimated total 
cost difference between the other storage options and port-side bulk liquid storage. 
Total cost should include any associated transportation costs, additional handling 
costs and storage costs, etc. 
3. If you use inland storage facilities, please outline the main reasons why you 
choose to use inland storage facilities over port-side bulk liquid storage. In 
responding to this question, please identify the type and volume (tonnes per year) 
of the products that you are storing at the inland storage facility; how often you 
need to move the product; the type, the size and number of the tanks and or 
containers used to store each product. 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 12 of 18 
4. If you use ISO-tanks, flexi-bags, IBCs or drums (containerised storage) please 
outline the main reasons why you choose to use containerised storage over port-
side bulk liquid storage. In responding to this question, please identify the type and 
volume (cubic metres or tonnes per year) of the products that you are storing using 
containerised storage; how often do you need to move the product; the type, size 
and number of containerised storage used to store each product.  
Location of port-side bulk liquid storage 
5. Please outline whether you are able to move your port-side bulk liquid storage from 
one state to another. Please identify the interstate location and bulk liquid storage 
provider. Please also provide the estimated costs of doing so (including changes in 
transportation costs and storage costs). 
Issue of concern: Reduced competition in the supply of 
port-side bulk liquid storage  
58. 
Market feedback suggests that the port-side bulk liquid storage industry in 
Australia is highly concentrated. There are only three major storage providers 
supplying storage for the Overlap Products, with ANZ Terminals and GLT both 
storing Overlap Products in Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia, with 
large market shares. The proposed acquisition will reduce the number of major 
port-side bulk liquid storage providers for the Overlap Products, with ANZ 
Terminals becoming the largest player in Australia. It will also become the only 
port-side bulk liquid storage provider for some products in New South Wales and 
South Australia. 
59. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition by increasing 
ANZ Terminals’ ability to raise prices and or decrease service levels, due to the 
reduction in competitors in a highly concentrated market(s). 
60. 
While the proposed acquisition will lead to a reduction in competitors in a 
number of geographic locations, the competitive conditions differ in different 
locations around Australia. Each geographic area where ANZ Terminals and 
GLT currently overlap is discussed in more detail from paragraph 71 below. 
Competitive dynamics 
61. 
Market feedback shows that customers usually have lengthy contract terms 
(three to five years), and they develop long-term relationships with storage 
providers. Customers generally do not switch storage providers unless they have 
to – due to increased prices, decreased service levels, or a change in storage 
requirements.  
62. 
Even though customers appear to be ‘sticky’ to a particular storage provider, 
market feedback shows that the competition between storage providers 
generally plays out through: 
a) responding to customers’ tender processes when contracts are up for 
renewal or when new storage requirements arise, or 
b) actively seeking customer volumes to fill spare capacity. 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 13 of 18 
63. 
When customers switch storage providers, they will either move to a provider 
that has spare tanks that are equipped to handle their product and are suitable in 
size. Alternatively they may underwrite the construction of new tanks by existing 
storage providers, but only if the storage provider has access to appropriate 
vacant port land for expansion. Market feedback indicated that storage tanks and 
surrounding infrastructure are expensive to build, and storage providers have a 
strong economic incentive to keep tank utilisation high. Therefore, a storage 
provider will only build new tanks if they have vacant land and a long-term take-
or-pay contract with the customer to underpin the investment. Similarly, if a 
storage provider loses a customer, they will have a strong incentive to compete 
to attract a new customer to maintain existing tank utilisation.  
GrainCorp will not be vertically integrated post-acquisition 
64. 
GLT currently supplies port-side bulk liquid storage to GNC and other customers 
that compete with GNC. Post-acquisition, GLT will no longer be vertically 
integrated with GNC. 
65. 
The ACCC considers that the removal of the vertical integration between GLT 
and GNC will not necessarily be a more competitive outcome for customers that 
compete with GNC. While the proposed acquisition will remove some vertical 
integration from the market, it will also lead to a reduction in the number of port-
side bulk liquid storage providers for customers, including those that do not 
compete with GNC.  
66. 
Furthermore, market feedback indicates that GLT’s vertical integration has not 
prevented customers obtaining benefits from competition between ANZ 
Terminals and GLT, including customers that compete with GNC.  
Barriers to entry / barriers to expansion  
67. 
Market feedback shows that the key requirement for entry by new storage 
providers, or expansion by existing storage providers, is to have access to 
suitable vacant land at the ports to build new tanks. Land suitable for bulk liquid 
tanks requires access to a berth where liquids can be pumped to or from bulk 
liquid ships. Therefore, not all available land at a port will be suitable for bulk 
liquid storage. 
68. 
Some existing suppliers (including ANZ Terminals and GLT) have access to 
vacant port land in some locations, meaning they may have an opportunity to 
expand.  
69. 
However, the ACCC understands that there is limited, or no vacant land 
available at most Australian ports for lease by new storage providers. 
Furthermore, market feedback suggests that for port-side bulk liquid storage 
providers that currently do not store the Overlap Products, most of them appear 
to have plans to build fuel storage tanks on their vacant land. Therefore, it 
appears unlikely that they would build new tanks to store the Overlap Products. 
70. 
Consequently, potential competition from the build of new tanks is only likely to 
come from existing bulk liquid storage providers. The potential expansion of 
existing providers may be an important dynamic of competition. The proposed 
acquisition will reduce the number of bulk liquid storage providers that could 
compete using either existing capacity or new tanks on existing land.   


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 14 of 18 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
issues outlined above. In particular market participants may wish to comment on the 
following: 
6. Is GLT, which is vertically integrated with GNC currently, a close competitor to ANZ 
Terminals in the bulk storage of edible oils? Do you see GLT as a viable option to 
store edible oils? Have you used the competitive tension between ANZ Terminals 
and GLT in contract negotiations? 
7. As a customer, how difficult is it to underwrite the building of new tanks? What is 
the timeframe? Have you used the threat of underwriting the building of new tanks 
in contract negotiations? Are you aware of any potential new entrants considering 
supplying bulk liquid storage in New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia or 
Queensland? 
8. Is it possible to gain access to port land for the purposes of building bulk liquid 
storage facilities in any of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia or 
Queensland? If so, what additional steps would be required to commence supply in 
these locations? Would entry be possible if existing storage providers increased 
their prices by 5-10%? Why/why not? 
Competition in the supply of port-side bulk liquid storage 
71. 
This section examines the state of competition in each geographic area of 
overlap for the supply of port-side bulk liquid storage. 
New South Wales 
72. 
Market feedback suggests that ANZ Terminals (at Port Botany) and GLT (at Port 
Kembla) are the only two bulk liquid storage providers of base oil currently 
operating in New South Wales. 
73. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will reduce the number of 
base oil storage providers to only ANZ Terminals. 
74. 
The ACCC understands that Vopak (at Port Botany) decommissioned its base oil 
and chemical storage tanks in 2015. 
75. 
Market feedback shows that Vopak’s focus is providing fuel storage, which 
requires much larger tanks than base oil. Given Vopak’s focus on fuel storage 
and its exit from supplying storage to base oil customers in Sydney, it appears 
unlikely that Vopak will provide a significant competitive alternative for base oil 
customers in the future.  
76. 
In terms of other potential new base oil storage providers, the ACCC 
understands that Stolt appears to be the most likely candidate, with vacant land 
at the Port of Newcastle. 
77. 
The ACCC is concerned that even with the prospect of Stolt entering into base 
oil storage, the number of potential storage providers will be reduced from three 
to two. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
issues outlined above for New South Wales. In particular market participants may wish 
to comment on the following: 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 15 of 18 
9. How closely do ANZ Terminals and GLT compete? Can they both store your 
product(s)? Have they actively tried to win your business? Have they responded to 
requests for tender or other competitive processes? 
10. Apart from ANZ Terminals and GLT, are there any other port-side storage 
providers in New South Wales that can meet your storage requirements? 
11. How suitable is Port Kembla and the Port of Newcastle as locations for bulk liquid 
storage compared to Port Botany? Would the additional transportation cost to 
Sydney and/or time differences prevent either or both of these locations being an 
alternative to Port Botany? 
12. Have you explored the option of underwriting new tanks with GLT and Stolt? What 
were the challenges? 
Victoria 
78. 
Market feedback shows that ANZ Terminals, GLT, Stolt and Anchor Tank are the 
four main storage providers of bulk liquid storage at the Port of Melbourne. In 
addition, ANZ Terminals stores some non-flammable industrial chemicals in 
Geelong.  
79. 
According to feedback from the market, Brandon Molasses predominantly stores 
molasses and provides a limited competitive constraint to the merger parties. 
80. 
The ACCC understands that Stolt, Anchor Tank and GLT have vacant land at 
the Port of Melbourne. 
Edible oils and tallow 
81. 
Market feedback shows that there is currently only three storage providers of 
edible oils and tallow at the Port of Melbourne: ANZ Terminals, GLT and Anchor 
Tank. Furthermore, customers consider the merger parties to be the main 
storage providers, with a combined market share significantly larger than Anchor 
Tank. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will remove ANZ 
Terminals’ closest competitor. 
82. 
In terms of new edible oils and tallow storage providers, the ACCC understands 
that Stolt is the only potential candidate with vacant land next to its current 
facility. 
83. 
The ACCC is concerned that even with the potential prospect of Stolt entering 
into edible oils and tallow storage, the proposed acquisition will reduce the 
number of potential storage providers from four to three.  
Base oils 
84. 
There are currently only three storage providers of base oils at the Port of 
Melbourne: ANZ Terminals, GLT and Stolt. Market feedback shows that GLT is 
the closest competitor to ANZ Terminals in base oil storage with its facility and 
tanks more suitable for base oil than other storage providers. The ACCC is 
concerned that the proposed acquisition will increase ANZ Terminals’ market 
position and reduce the number of base oils storage providers from three to two. 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 16 of 18 
Non-flammable industrial chemicals 
85. 
Market feedback suggests that there are currently only three storage providers of 
non-flammable chemicals at the Port of Melbourne: ANZ Terminals, GLT and 
Stolt.  
86. 
The ACCC understands that GLT and Stolt are both close competitors of ANZ 
Terminals in the storage of non-flammable industrial chemicals. 
87. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will reduce the number of 
storage providers for non-flammable chemicals from three to two.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
issues outlined above for Victoria. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
13. How closely do ANZ Terminals, GLT, Stolt and Anchor Tank compete? Can they 
store your product(s)? Have they actively tried to win your business? Have they 
responded to your requests for tender or other competitive processes? 
14. Apart from ANZ Terminals and GLT, are there any other port-side storage 
providers in Victoria that can meet your storage requirements? 
15. Have you explored the option of underwriting new tanks with the port-side bulk 
liquid providers? What were the challenges? 
South Australia 
88. 
ANZ Terminals and GLT are the only bulk liquid storage providers in Adelaide. 
ANZ Terminals currently operates the Pelican Point terminal (storing fuel) and 
the Largs Bay terminal. GLT currently operates the Osborne terminal. 
89. 
The ACCC understands that the Largs Bay terminal and Osborne terminal 
overlap in the storage of bulk liquids and is concerned that the proposed 
acquisition will reduce the number of storage providers in Adelaide from two to 
one. 
90. 
The ACCC is still considering whether ANZ Terminals’ proposed Undertaking to 
divest the Osborne Terminal will be sufficient to resolve any competition 
concerns. The proposed Undertaking is discussed below from paragraph 93. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
issues outlined above for South Australia. In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on the following: 
16. How closely do ANZ Terminals and GLT? Can they both store your product? Have 
they actively tried to win your business? Have they responded to your requests for 
tender or other competitive processes? 
17. Apart from ANZ Terminals and GLT, are there any other port-side storage 
providers in South Australia that can meet your storage requirements? 
Competition between terminals in the east coast states 
91. 
As described in paragraph 56, there are some customers that are able to switch 
between ANZ Terminals, GLT and possibly other terminals in the east coast 
states. However, these customers are still limited in the number of port-side bulk 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 17 of 18 
liquid storage providers they can use and therefore face the same state-based 
competition issues outline above.  
92. 
The ACCC is still considering whether the proposed acquisition may result in the 
reduction of the number of port-side bulk liquid storage providers for these 
customers and the loss of GLT as a competitive constraint in contract 
negotiations. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
issues outlined above for the east coast states. In particular market participants may 
wish to comment on the following: 
18. How closely do ANZ Terminals and GLT and other port-side bulk liquid providers in 
the east coast state compete? Can they store your product? Why/why not? Have 
they actively tried to win your business? Have they responded to your requests for 
tender or other competitive processes? 
19. Apart from ANZ Terminals and GLT, who are the other port-side storage providers 
in the east coast states that can meet your storage requirements? 
20. Are there other port-side bulk storage providers with terminals outside of the east 
coast states that can meet your storage requirements? 
Proposed undertaking 
93. 
As part of the proposed acquisition, ANZ Terminals has offered an Undertaking 
under section 87B of the Act to divest the Osborne Terminal in Adelaide, 
including 26 bulk storage tanks and all associated equipment used to carry on 
the business. 
94. 
The ACCC is still considering whether the proposed undertaking will enable the 
new owner of the Osborne Terminal to be an effective and long-term bulk liquid 
storage provider to compete with ANZ Terminals in Adelaide, or more broadly.  
95. 
However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the divestment of the Osborne 
Terminal is unlikely to address the competition concerns in the supply of bulk 
liquid storage outside of South Australia. The ACCC notes in particular the close 
competition between the parties in respect of customers in the eastern states as 
outlined above in the Statement of Issues. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
proposed undertaking to divest the Osborne Terminal. In particular market participants 
may wish to comment on the following: 
21. How does the Osborne terminal compare with the Largs Bay terminal? Such as 
berth draft, infrastructure, land available for expansion, road access to the 
terminal? 
22. Would divestment of the Osbourne terminal resolve any competition concerns in 
South Australia? 
23. Would divestment of the Osbourne terminal resolve competition concerns outside 
of South Australia? 


ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia 
Pty Ltd 
 
Page 18 of 18 
ACCC’s preliminary views 
96. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition will reduce the number of 
major bulk liquid storage providers in various locations around Australia. ANZ 
Terminals and GLT are two large suppliers of bulk liquid storage in an already 
concentrated industry. They overlap in the supply of bulk liquid storage for one or 
more of edible oils, tallow, non-flammable industrial chemicals, base oils and 
non-fuel petroleum products in each of New South Wales, Victoria and South 
Australia. 
97. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen competition by increasing 
ANZ Terminals’ ability to raise prices and or decrease service levels, due to the 
reduction in competitors in an already concentrated market. 
ACCC's future steps 
98. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 5pm on 8 August 2019 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
99. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
100. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by Thursday, 17 October 
2019. However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the 
purpose of explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the 
ACCC's public announcement to explain its final view. 
