 
 
1 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM - 70210 
Your ref: 
 
Contact officer: 
Braeden Smith 
Contact phone: 
02 6243 4936 
9 May 2019 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd’s proposed acquisition 
of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals Australia Pty Ltd 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of GrainCorp Liquid Terminals (GLT) Australia Pty Ltd by ANZ 
Terminals Pty Ltd (ANZ Terminals) (the proposed acquisition). 
GLT and ANZ Terminals both provide bulk liquid storage services, specialising in the 
storage and handling of bulk liquid fats and oils, fuels and chemicals.  
As part of the proposed acquisition, ANZ Terminals intends to divest its terminal at Osborne 
in Adelaide. As such, it has provided a draft proposed s87B undertaking to be considered 
as part of this review. A copy of the draft proposed s87B undertaking can be found on the 
ACCC’s Public Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Further details regarding the acquisition and the draft proposed s87B undertaking can be 
found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition.  In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
 
whether GLT and ANZ Terminals compete closely 
 
the impact of the proposed acquisition on prices, availability and quality of the 
storage and handling services for bulk liquids 
 
the impact of the proposed divestment of the Osborne Terminal in Adelaide. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 


 
2 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 23 May 2019. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: ANZ Terminals proposed 
acquisition of GLT- attention Braeden Smith. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss 
the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact 
Braeden Smith on 02 6243 4936. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
ANZ Terminals 
ANZ Terminals is a wholly owned subsidiary of Helios Investments Australia Pty 
Limited (Helios), which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hyperion Investments 
Australia Pty Ltd (Hyperion). ANZ Terminals offers storage and handling services in 
Australia for a range of liquid products, including industrial chemicals, petroleum 
fuels, bitumen, marine fuels, aviation fuels, base oils and oils and fats. The services 
that it provides include the transfer of liquid products to and from bulk ships by 
pipeline, storage in bulk quantities, loading and discharge of road tanker trucks, 
product blending and heating and drumming.  
Some or all of these services are provided at five terminals across Australia: 
 
Osborne terminal and Pelican Point (both at Port of Adelaide) in South 
Australia 
 
Geelong (Port of Geelong) and West Melbourne (Port of Melbourne on Coode 
Island) in Victoria 
 
Port Botany in New South Wales 
Graincorp Liquid Terminals 
GLT is a wholly owned subsidiary of GrainCorp Limited (GNC). GNC is an 
international food ingredients and agribusiness company. Its business includes 
activities across the edible oils and fats supply chain. GLT currently operates as part 
of GNC’s integrated edible oils and fats supply chain. GLT stores and handles bulk 
liquids including fats and edible oils, chemicals and petroleum. A large portion of 
GLT’s capacity is allocated to storing GNC’s products. GLT also provide some 
storage and handling services for external customers.  
GLT operates seven terminals across Australia: 
 
Port Kembla in New South Wales 
 
Largs Bay in South Australia, located in close proximity to Port of Adelaide 
 
Pinkenba in Queensland, located in close proximity to Port of Brisbane 
 
Devonport, at the Port of Devonport in Tasmania 
 
Coode Island (located at the Port of Melbourne) and North Laverton 
(approximately 12km inland from Port of Melbourne) in Victoria 
 
North Fremantle, at Fremantle Port in Western Australia 
The Transaction 
ANZ Terminal’s parent company, Helios proposes to acquire GrainCorp Liquid 
Terminals Australia Pty Limited (GLT) from GrainCorp Commodity Management 
(Holdings) Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of GNC. Following the proposed 
acquisition, GLT will be operated by a wholly owned subsidiary of ANZ Terminals.  
 
 


 
4 
Overview of divestment proposal 
As part of the proposed acquisition ANZ Terminals intends to divest its terminal at 
Osborne in Adelaide. As such, it has provided a draft proposed s87B undertaking to 
be considered as part of this review. ANZ Terminals’ divestment proposal includes: 
 
The terminal operated at Osborne, in Port of Adelaide, South Australia, 
including 26 bulk storage tanks and all associated equipment used to carry on 
the business and the transfer of all relevant employees 
 
A transitional supply agreement for any goods or services that are required by 
the purchaser to establish itself as a competitor in the provision of bulk liquid 
storage and handling services in South Australia (at the purchaser’s option) 
 
A transitional technical assistance agreement that is required by the 
purchaser in order to effectively operate the Osborne terminal (at the 
purchaser’s option) 
 
Independent management of the Osborne terminal during the divestiture 
period (from date of the merger to the completion of the divestiture) 
The ACCC will also have the discretion to approve or reject the proposed purchaser 
of the Osborne terminal. 
 
 
 


 
5 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship/s with either of ANZ Terminals or GLT. 
Relevant market(s) 
3. Please describe your organisation’s purchase/supply of bulk liquid storage and 
handling services. The ACCC would appreciate receiving information about the 
specific types of services you use/supply, how you source these, how they are 
utilised by customers, and volumes/value of your purchases/supply. 
4. Please identify and describe other suppliers of bulk liquid storage and handling 
services, including the extent to which they compete with ANZ Terminals and/or 
GLT. Relevant factors may include the type of liquid products stored, the 
geographic areas of supply, scale and quality of storage and ancillary services. 
When answering please also consider the availability of products/services that 
are close alternatives for bulk liquid storage and handling facilities, with particular 
reference to the functionality and relative prices of those alternatives. Such 
alternative services may or may not include ISO-tanks, bladder bags/flexi-bags or 
pillow tanks. Please provide specific examples where possible. 
5. Please comment on the geographic area over which customers generally acquire 
bulk liquid storage and handling services and their ability to source these services 
from further away in response to the combined ANZ Terminals/GLT attempting to 
increase prices. For example, could customers currently acquiring these services 
at a terminal in New South Wales feasibly acquire them from an alternative 
location, for instance in Queensland. Please identify transport costs and any 
other relevant factors. 
Competitive dynamics 
6. Please address the closeness of competition between ANZ Terminals and GLT 
for the supply of bulk liquid storage and handling services. Relevant factors may 
include the range of liquid products stored and handled, geographic areas of 
supply, whether the parties respond to each other’s promotional and pricing 
activity, whether customers often switch between the two, and/or their 
participation in tender processes. Please provide specific examples where 
possible.   
Potential competitive constraints on merged firm 
New entry/expansion 
7. Please address the ability of either new entry or competing suppliers of bulk liquid 
storage and handling services expanding supply in response to the combined 
ANZ Terminals/GLT attempting to increase prices. Factors to consider are: 
a. competing suppliers’ excess capacities and any obstacles to expansion; 
b. the ability of existing suppliers to switch between providing storage for 
different products, e.g. between supply of storage for base oils to edible 
oils and fats, chemicals or hazardous materials;  


 
6 
c. the ability of existing suppliers or a new entrant to acquire the appropriate 
land to build new storage facilities; 
d. the ability to acquire the appropriate approvals to build new storage 
facilities; 
e. the required economies of scale and the minimum efficient scale of 
market entry; 
f. timeframe for market entry; 
g. any requirements for exclusive/long-term customer contracts in order to 
facilitate entry; 
h. overall market growth/decline, is demand for storage services changing, 
and if so, are there reasons for these changes. Please provide any recent 
examples of market entry and exit. 
Countervailing power of customers 
8. Please address the extent to which there are significant customers with the ability 
to bypass supply from the combined ANZ Terminals/GLT by vertically integrating 
into internal supply of bulk liquid storage and handling facilities or sponsoring new 
entry. If known, please provide any examples of this happening in the past.  
Proposed s87B Undertaking 
Questions for market participants 
9. Does the undertaking include all necessary assets and personnel that a 
purchaser would require to effectively operate the Osborne terminal? If not, 
please explain what additional assets or personnel would be required? 
10. Are you aware of any third party, including regulatory, consents required to 
transfer the Osborne terminal to a purchaser that may impact on the effective 
implementation of the undertaking? 
11. To what extent would the purchaser of the Osborne terminal need existing bulk 
liquid storage facilities and/or experience in the bulk liquid storage and handling 
services industry in order to be a viable, effective and long term competitor in 
bulk liquid storage and handling services in South Australia? 
12. Would the divestment of the Osborne terminal fully address any concerns you 
may have relation to the effect of the proposed acquisition on bulk liquid storage 
and handling services in South Australia? 
Other information or competition issues 
13. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other 
competition issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the 
proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
 
