 
Page 1 of 9 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
23 December 2019 
ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of 
GrainCorp Liquid Terminals  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 15 November 2019 the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the 
proposed acquisition by ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd (ANZ Terminals) of GrainCorp 
Liquid Terminals (GLT) (the proposed acquisition) after accepting a section 
87B undertaking from ANZ Terminals and Hyperion Investments Australia Pty 
Ltd (Hyperion).  
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, taking into account the 
undertaking, would be unlikely to contravene section 50 of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have 
the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in 
any market. 
3. 
The ACCC identified preliminary competition concerns in relation to South 
Australia, New South Wales and Victoria, due to the limited alternative options 
for bulk liquid storage. The ACCC concluded that these competition concerns 
were addressed by: 
 
ANZ Terminals/Hyperion undertaking to divest the Osborne terminal at the 
Port of Adelaide to an ACCC-approved purchaser 
 
ANZ Terminals/Hyperion undertaking not to acquire any interest in 
additional land at the Port of Melbourne’s Coode Island for a period of 10 
years without first obtaining clearance from either the ACCC or the relevant 
Court/Tribunal 
 
ANZ Terminals and GLT changing the structure of the proposed acquisition 
to exclude GLT’s bulk liquid terminal assets at Port Kembla in New South 
Wales.  
4. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines the reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition, subject to the undertakings. 


 
Page 2 of 9 
5. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so the 
analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other 
transaction may involve the same or a related market. 
 
As assessments are brief and do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not 
necessarily set out all of the issues and information considered by the 
ACCC, nor all of the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: ANZ Terminals Pty Ltd 
6. 
ANZ Terminals is a wholly owned subsidiary of Helios Investments Australia Pty 
Ltd, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hyperion. 
7. 
ANZ Terminals provides bulk liquid storage services specialising in the storage 
and handling of bulk liquid edible oils and fats, petroleum products and industrial 
chemicals for third party customers. 
8. 
ANZ Terminals operates five terminals across Australia at Port Botany in New 
South Wales, Geelong and Port of Melbourne in Victoria, and Pelican Point and 
Osborne in South Australia.  
The target: GrainCorp Liquid Terminals 
9. 
GrainCorp Liquid Terminals is a wholly owned subsidiary of GrainCorp 
Commodity Management (Holdings) Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of 
GrainCorp Limited (GNC). The business of GLT includes activities across the 
edible oils and fats supply chain. GLT stores and handles the bulk liquid 
requirements for GNC, as well as providing these services to third party 
customers for edible oils and fats, petroleum products and industrial chemicals.  
10. GLT operates eight terminals across Australia, including Port Kembla in New 
South Wales, Port of Melbourne and North Laverton in Victoria, two terminals at 
Pinkenba in Queensland, Largs Bay in Adelaide, Devonport in Tasmania and 
Fremantle in Western Australia. The North Laverton terminal is GLT’s only 
facility located inland. 
The transaction 
11. Pursuant to an agreement entered into on 4 March 2019, ANZ Terminals agreed 
to purchase GLT’s business in Australia. This initially included all eight of GLT’s 
terminals at Port Kembla, Port of Melbourne, North Laverton, Pinkenba, Largs 
Bay, Devonport and Fremantle.  
12. However, during the ACCC’s review, ANZ Terminals and GLT revised the 
transaction to exclude GLT’s terminal at Port Kembla, which would instead 


 
Page 3 of 9 
transfer to GNC’s business. The Port Kembla terminal is not therefore part of the 
proposed acquisition the subject of the ACCC’s review.  
13. As part of the proposed acquisition, GNC will enter into a Long-Term Storage 
Agreement (LTSA) with ANZ Terminals under which GNC will be able to obtain 
liquid storage and ancillary services from ANZ Terminals. 
Review timeline 
14. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter.  
Date 
Event 
9 May 2019 
 
25 July 2019 
 
 
24 October 
2019 
 
 
15 November 
2019 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process Guidelines. 
 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns 
 
Former proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s decision of 
31/10/2019 delayed to allow the ACCC further time to consider 
information received. 
 
ACCC decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition, subject to a 
section 87B undertaking. 
 
15. The total elapsed time from start to finish was 6 months. The total period net of 
time taken by the parties to submit information or documents was 107 business 
days.  
Market inquiries 
16. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, customers and other interested parties. Submissions were 
sought in relation to the substantive competition issues and proposed 
undertaking. 
Statement of Issues 
17. On 25 July 2019 the ACCC published a Statement of Issues (SOI) on the 
proposed acquisition identifying a number of competition issues. In the SOI the 
ACCC stated its preliminary view that the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially reduce competition by increasing ANZ Terminals’ ability to raise 
prices and or decrease service levels, due to the reduction in competitors in an 
already concentrated market.  
Industry background 
18. Port-side bulk liquid storage providers offer intermediate storage and handling 
services for bulk liquid storage and then facilitate the export of bulk liquids or the 
redistribution of the imported bulk liquids for end use (See Figure 1).  


 
Page 4 of 9 
19. Figure 1: Port-side bulk liquids supply chain 
 
 
20. ANZ Terminals and GLT are major port-side bulk liquid storage providers with a 
presence at ports across Australia. They predominantly overlap in the provision 
of storage of the following bulk liquids: 
 
Edible oils 
 
Tallow and fats 
 
Non-flammable industrial chemicals 
 
Base oils. 
21. In addition to storing and handling bulk liquids, storage providers may provide 
ancillary services. Such services include product blending, product bleaching, 
heating, drumming, nitrogen sparging and blanketing, and waste disposal.  
22. Bulk liquid storage fees are negotiated confidentially between the customer and 
the storage provider and depend on a range of factors including the location, the 
type and volume of liquid(s) being stored, as well as the alternative storage 
options available to each customer.  
Other industry participants 
23. Stolt Nielsen, through its Stolthaven (Stolt) unit, provides storage and 
distribution solutions mainly for chemicals and petroleum products. Stolt has 
port-side bulk liquid storage facilities located at the Port of Melbourne in Victoria, 
Port Alma and Bundaberg in Queensland and Newcastle in New South Wales. 
Stolt’s terminal in Bundaberg is not operational.  
24. Stolt overlaps with ANZ Terminals and GLT in the provision of various types of 
bulk liquids at the Port of Melbourne. 
25. Anchor Tank has a port-side bulk liquid storage terminal at the Port of Melbourne 
and an inland bulk liquid storage facility in Braybrook, in Victoria. Anchor Tank 
predominantly stores tallow and fats. 


 
Page 5 of 9 
Market definition 
26. The ACCC’s starting point for defining relevant markets to assess the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisition involves identifying the products 
actually or potentially supplied by the parties to the acquisition. The ACCC then 
considers what other products constitute sufficiently close substitutes to provide 
a significant source of competitive constraint. 
Geographic market 
27. The locations in which the parties’ operations overlapped in the supply of port-
side bulk liquid storage were:  
 
the Port of Melbourne, where the relevant competitors are ANZ Terminals, 
GLT, Stolt and Anchor Tank 
 
the Port of Adelaide, where the relevant competitors are ANZ Terminals 
and GLT, and  
 
Port Kembla / Port Botany, where the relevant competitors are GLT and 
ANZ Terminals. 
28. The ACCC considered that the strength of competition between port-side bulk 
liquid storage providers is influenced by the distance it is financially viable for 
end users to transport the relevant liquid over land. Although the degree of 
substitutability will vary depending on the specific customer, the ACCC noted 
that the additional cost of transporting liquids longer distances over land is high 
relative to port-side bulk liquid storage costs. The ACCC therefore considered 
that many customers, if faced with a 5-10 per cent price increase in storage 
costs, would be unlikely to switch their storage requirements to a different state, 
for example. Therefore, the ACCC considered that competition is closest 
between providers of storage at the same port, or, in the case of New South 
Wales, between providers at ports that are close to each other.  
Product market 
29. The ACCC considered that bulk liquid storage tanks were typically built for the 
purpose of storing a particular type of liquid and that the closeness of 
competition between storage providers may be influenced by the specifications 
of the tanks they have and the types of liquids they store. Tanks have particular 
characteristics and requirements for storing particular types of liquids. For 
instance, fuel tends to be stored in very large tanks due to its high throughput, 
hazardous chemicals require particular tank linings and fire suppression systems 
for safety, and some edible oils and fats require heating to keep them liquid. 
Despite these differences, the ACCC considered that there is some supply-side 
substitutability between tanks designed for different types of liquids, albeit with 
some asymmetries. Whilst tanks are designed to store particular liquids, storage 
providers can and do store some other types of liquids in these purpose built 
tanks if there is spare capacity. The ACCC took these asymmetries into 
consideration during its review, particularly because some customers identified 
concerns that certain competitors may not be able or willing to store a particular 
type of liquid.  


 
Page 6 of 9 
30. The ACCC also considered the extent to which alternative forms of storage such 
as ISO-tanks, flexi-bags or other containerised forms are substitutable for bulk 
liquid storage tanks. 
31. The ACCC considered that these alternative forms of storage are generally 
significantly more expensive per tonne of liquid stored for large volumes. In 
addition to increased storage cost, alternative storage in this manner may also 
require significant changes to a customer’s logistics supply chain, which may 
involve further costs depending on the products being transported and the 
customers’ volume requirements. For these reasons, the ACCC considered that 
these alternative forms of storage were unlikely to closely constrain the pricing of 
bulk liquid storage for products imported in large volumes. 
32. The ACCC also considered whether inland bulk liquid storage was a close 
substitute for port-side bulk liquid storage. The ACCC considered that inland 
storage required the customer to either bypass port-side storage by using ISO-
tanks or other containers, or to use port-side bulk liquid storage before or after 
transporting to the inland facility. As noted above, customers typically face 
challenges switching to containerised storage. Using both the inland facility and 
port-side facility requires double handling of the liquid, increasing costs. 
Therefore, it is unlikely that inland storage could closely constrain a price 
increase from port-side providers.  
33. Accordingly, the ACCC considered that the market was for port-side bulk liquid 
storage. However, as noted above, within this market the closeness of 
competition between storage providers may be influenced by the specifications 
of the tanks they have and the types of liquids they store. 
Competition analysis 
Competition issues at Port of Melbourne 
34. At the Port of Melbourne, ANZ Terminals and GLT are the two largest providers 
of port-side bulk liquid storage in terms of capacity. ANZ Terminals and GLT are 
both located on Coode Island at the Port of Melbourne and overlap in the 
provision of storage for base oils and edible oils and fats. The other two key 
competitors are Stolt and Anchor Tank, also located on Coode Island. 
35. To consider the impact of the proposed acquisition on competition at the Port of 
Melbourne the ACCC closely considered a range of information, including: 
information from market participants; the internal documents from the parties; 
and records of customer switching. The ACCC considered that even with four 
port-side bulk liquid storage providers located next to each other on Coode 
Island, there appears to have been very limited switching between providers. 
Typically, customers appear to enter long-term contracts for the supply of 
storage, and in some cases these contracts underwrite the building of tanks. 
This creates a dynamic by which: 
 
most storage capacity is built for a particular purpose and most facilities 
operate at almost full capacity 
 
both customers and providers of storage appear to preference renewing 
their existing storage agreements, over changing storage providers. 


 
Page 7 of 9 
36. The ACCC considered that the potential for expansion of competitors and the 
threat that a customer would leave its existing provider and have new tanks built 
by an alternative provider is a key driver to competition. Consequently, the 
ACCC concluded that vacant land and the ability by an existing storage provider 
to expand was a significant competitive constraint on ANZ Terminals and GLT.   
37. Anchor Tank and Stolt Nielsen currently hold the most significant parcels of 
vacant land remaining on Coode Island. The ACCC also noted that Anchor Tank 
is currently undertaking an expansion project on some of its land. 
38. In addition, even though ANZ Terminals would significantly increase the number 
of its tanks on Coode Island by acquiring GLT, a large number of these tanks 
are, and have historically been, contracted to GNC’s edible oil business. The 
ACCC considered that these tanks are likely to remain occupied by GNC’s edible 
oil business for a significant amount of time and are unlikely to be available to 
third party customers in the foreseeable future. 
39. ANZ terminals/Hyperion has given a court enforceable undertaking pursuant to 
section 87B of the Act, that they will not acquire any interest in additional parcels 
of land on Coode Island in the next 10 years, without first obtaining relevant 
clearance (competition clearance by the ACCC, Australian Competition Tribunal 
or Federal Court).  Given the ACCC considered that the remaining vacant areas 
of land are important to the competitive dynamic of this market, the ACCC 
reached the conclusion that, taking into account the undertaking, there was 
unlikely to be a substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply 
of port-side bulk liquid storage at the Port of Melbourne.  
Competition issues at the Port of Adelaide in South Australia 
40. In South Australia ANZ Terminals and GLT are the only independent providers of 
port-side bulk liquid storage and overlap in the provision of storage for non-
flammable chemicals and tallow. ANZ Terminals currently operates a bulk fuel 
terminal at Pelican Point and a separate bulk liquid storage terminal at Osborne. 
GLT currently operates a bulk liquid storage terminal at Largs Bay. There are no 
other non-vertically integrated providers of bulk liquid storage in South Australia.  
41. At the commencement of the ACCC’s public review, ANZ Terminals and 
Hyperion proffered a proposed undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act to 
divest the Osborne terminal. 
42. During its review, the ACCC considered both the need for any undertaking and 
the potential for the undertaking to remedy any potential competition concerns. 
43. In relation to the Port of Adelaide, the ACCC noted that, despite the presence of 
available land, it was unlikely there would be a significant threat of new entry to 
constrain a combined ANZ Terminals/GLT post-acquisition. Unlike at the Port of 
Melbourne, there is no alternative provider such as Stolt or Anchor Tank present 
in South Australia. Any potential expansion of capacity would require a new 
entrant to develop all of the base infrastructure required to supply bulk liquid 
storage, rather than just the incremental cost of new tanks.  
44. Accordingly, the ACCC determined that an undertaking to divest assets was 
required.  Despite the Osborne terminal being small, the ACCC considered the 
divestment was sufficient to remedy the competition concerns. The ACCC also 


 
Page 8 of 9 
tested with market participants whether or not the Osborne terminal would be 
viable as a stand-alone business. On the basis of information from market 
participants the ACCC was satisfied that the Osborne terminal would be viable 
as a stand-alone business. 
 The Competition issues in Port Kembla / Port Botany 
45. In New South Wales ANZ Terminals and GLT overlap in the supply of port-side 
bulk liquid storage of base oils and are the only two providers with bulk liquid 
tanks set up for this purpose. ANZ Terminals operates a terminal at Port Botany, 
while GLT operates out of Port Kembla. There are two other bulk liquid storage 
providers in New South Wales, Vopak in Port Botany and Stolt at Port of 
Newcastle. However, neither of these providers currently store base oils, nor do 
they have tanks suitable for storing base oils. 
46. The ACCC noted that base oil customers viewed ANZ Terminals and GLT as the 
only two storage options in New South Wales. Customers have used the 
competitive tension between ANZ Terminals and GLT in contract negotiations.   
47. The ACCC took into account spare land available at GLT’s Port Kembla facility 
and considered the likelihood that the combined ANZ Terminals and GLT could 
be constrained by other bulk liquid storage providers in NSW, in particular Stolt 
and Vopak.   
48. The ACCC noted that although Vopak has provided storage for base oils in the 
past, it no longer does so. The ACCC took into account that Vopak’s current 
storage facilities in Port Botany are purpose built for fuels, and that the tanks are 
too large to economically store base oils. The ACCC concluded that Vopak was 
unlikely to provide an effective constraint on the combined ANZ Terminals and 
GLT post-acquisition. 
49. The ACCC noted that Stolt is currently storing fuel products at the Port of 
Newcastle, but that its tanks are generally too large to store base oils. 
Furthermore, the ACCC considered that the distance and location of Stolt at the 
Port of Newcastle relative to Sydney made it a less attractive terminal to many 
customers in Sydney and Port Kembla. Therefore, bulk liquid storage at the Port 
of Newcastle was unlikely to place a strong constraint on the combined ANZ 
Terminals / GLT for many customers post-acquisition. 
50. The ACCC raised concerns in the SOI that ANZ Terminals and GLT were most 
likely the closest competitors for the provision of bulk liquid storage for base oils 
in New South Wales, and that other alternatives were unlikely to provide a strong 
constraint. 
51. During the ACCC’s review, ANZ Terminals and GLT revised the proposed 
acquisition to remove GLT’s Port Kembla terminal from the acquisition, instead 
transferring the Port Kembla asset to GNC. 
52. The ACCC accordingly considered whether the exclusion of Port Kembla 
addressed its concerns in respect of competition in NSW. The ACCC concluded 
that Port Kembla would continue to be operated by experienced staff with the 
support from GNC’s broader overseas bulk liquid storage business. It would 
continue to have access to the capital and financial assistance required from 
GNC and the incentives to compete vigorously in New South Wales. 


 
Page 9 of 9 
Undertaking 
53. In order to address the ACCC’s competition concerns in relation to South 
Australia and at the Port of Melbourne, Hyperion and ANZ Terminals offered a 
court enforceable undertaking pursuant to section 87B of the Act (Undertaking).  
54. The ACCC spoke to a range of market participants in relation to the undertaking 
and the ACCC concluded that the undertaking addressed its competition 
concerns in these areas.  
55. A brief summary of the Undertaking is set out below: 
 
Coode Island, Port of Melbourne - Hyperion, ANZ Terminals and any 
related bodies corporate of ANZ Terminals or Hyperion will not, for a period 
of 10 years, acquire any direct or indirect interest (including but not limited 
to a lease or licence) in any land on Coode Island, at the Port of 
Melbourne, in which ANZ Terminals or GLT does not have an interest, 
unless relevant clearance (competition clearance by the ACCC, Australian 
Competition Tribunal or Federal Court) has been obtained. 
 
Divestiture package – the ACCC must approve a purchaser for the terminal 
operated at Osborne, South Australia, which provides bulk liquid import 
and export services. The divestiture will include all fixed assets, equipment 
and facilities, books and records, inventory, customers, employees and 
applicable licences, the transfer or assignment of leased property and the 
transfer of personnel. 
 
Independent Auditor and Manager – ANZ Terminals must appoint an 
ACCC approved Independent Auditor and Independent Manager to 
monitor ANZ Terminals’ overall compliance with the undertaking and to 
manage the Osborne terminal from completion of the proposed acquisition 
until it is sold to an approved purchaser. 
 
Transitional technical assistance and supply agreements - ANZ Terminals 
must supply any technical assistance and any goods or services required 
by the approved purchaser of the Osborne terminal to become established 
as a viable, effective, stand-alone, independent and long-term competitor. 
56. A copy of the Undertaking is available on the ACCC merger register and 
undertakings register.  
Conclusion 
57. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition 
of GLT by ANZ Terminals, taking into account the undertaking and the exclusion 
of Port Kembla from the transaction, would not be likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in any market. 
