 
 
1 
Level 17, 2 Lonsdale Street
Melbourne VIC 3000
GPO Box 520
Melbourne Vic 3001
tel: (03) 9290 1800
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-70076 
 
Contact officer:  
Yak Wang / Jonathan Koay 
Contact phone: 
03 9290 6978 / 03 9658 6436  
13 February 2019 
 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Liberty’s proposed acquisition of Steelforce 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of Steelforce Holdings Pty Ltd (Steelforce) by GFG Alliance 
Australia / Liberty House Group (Liberty) (the proposed acquisition). 
Liberty is Australia’s main manufacturer, and a major distributor, of long steel products. 
Steelforce imports long steel products from its mill in China and other international sources 
and is a major distributor in Australia. Liberty and Steelforce both supply and distribute 
certain long steel products such as hollow structural sections (HSS), hot rolled structural 
steel (HRS) and merchant bar products. Further details on Liberty and Steelforce can be 
found at Attachment A. 
The ACCC is investigating the potential competition issues that could arise at the 
manufacturing and supply level (referred to as wholesale supply) and at the distribution 
level. In particular, we are seeking your views on: 
 
the likely impact of the merger on the prices distributors pay for long steel products  
 
whether the merger will likely give Liberty the ability to foreclose other distributors of 
long steel products 
 
how closely Liberty and Steelforce currently compete in the wholesale supply of 
long steel products in Australia 
 
whether imports of long steel products are readily available and can be 
economically imported, taking into account current and possible future anti-dumping 
measures. 
 
the likely impact on prices that will arise from the merger of two of the major 
distributors of long steel products to end-use customers and retailers  
 
how closely Liberty and Steelforce currently compete in the distribution of long steel 
products in Australia. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 


 
2 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions 
that are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 5pm on 5 March 2019. Responses may be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Liberty/Steelforce- attention 
Yak Wang/Jonathan Koay. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with 
ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact Yak Wang on 
03 9290 6978 or Jonathan Koay on 03 9658 6436. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or 
in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the 
ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance 
where possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the 
information provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our 
Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Tom Leuner 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations 


 
 
3 
Attachment A 
The acquirer – GFG Alliance Australia / Liberty House Group   
GFG Alliance Australia is comprised of two separate corporate groups—the Liberty House 
Group and the SIMEC Group. The Liberty House Group operates the Liberty Steel division.  
The Liberty House Group acquired the main business assets of Arrium in August 2017, 
namely:  
 
iron ore mining assets near Whyalla, South Australia, and iron ore bulk 
handling facilities at the Whyalla port (now known as SIMEC Mining)  
 
the Whyalla steelworks (now known as Liberty Primary Steel), and  
 
the former OneSteel steel distribution, manufacturing and recycling 
businesses now known as Liberty Recycling, Liberty Steel, Liberty 
Reinforcing and Liberty Metalcentre.  
GFG Australia also owns Austube Mills, which is a major manufacturer of HSS such 
as steel structural pipe and tube products. 
Liberty Primary Steel is the only Australian manufacturer of HRS steel products. HRS 
products include universal beams and columns, beams and channels, and angles. 
Liberty Steel is the largest manufacturer of long steel products in Australia producing 
rod, reinforcing bar and wire products for construction applications, merchant bar for 
general applications, fencing for rural applications and specialty bar and wire for 
manufacturing applications in Australia. 
Liberty Metalcentre is a major distributor of long steel products with a network of 46 
branches in Australia. Its range includes HSS, HRS, and merchant bars. 
The target – Steelforce  
Steelforce’s operations include its:  
 
steel manufacturing business in Dalian, China (conducted through 
subsidiary companies Dalian Steelforce Hi-Tech Co Ltd and Dalian 
Austeel Trading Pty Ltd).  Steelforce has a cold forming mill producing 
steel pipe and other cold formed hollow sections. Steelforce also sources 
a range of cold formed open profiles and fabricated products such as farm 
gates and cattle panels. 
 
steel distribution and/or trading businesses in Australia and New Zealand 
(conducted through the parent company Steelforce Holdings Pty Ltd). This 
business imports and distributes various steel products, sourced both 
from Steelforce’s Dalian manufacturing plant and from third party 
international manufacturers. 
 
 


 
 
4 
 
 
Attachment B 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship/s with either of Liberty or Steelforce. 
Relevant market 
3. How does your organisation purchase or supply long steel products: HSS (such 
as steel structural pipe and tube), HRS (such as universal beams and columns), 
and merchant bar products? The ACCC would appreciate receiving information 
about:  
 
the specific types of long steel products you purchase or supply  
 
how you source (domestic or import) or produce these long steel products 
 
the identity of your suppliers and how they compete with Liberty and/or 
Steelforce (in terms of product range, supply area, scale, product quality 
or service standards, etc)  
 
your major customers and how they use the products, and volumes / 
value of your purchases / supply. 
4. Do you purchase your products under a single contract with each supplier? Do 
you have separate contracts for different parts of Australia? Can you easily 
purchase products from new suppliers from further away? If so, please identify 
transport costs and any other relevant factors.  
Competitive dynamics 
5. How closely do Liberty and Steelforce compete? Relevant factors may include 
their product range, geographic areas of supply, responding to each other’s 
promotional activity, and winning and losing customers between each other. 
Please provide specific examples where possible.   
Potential competitive constraints on merged firm 
Competing domestic manufacturers and distributors of long steel products 
6. Who are the alternative domestic manufacturers and distributors? What 
alternative manufacturer or distributor could you use if the combined 
“Liberty/Steelforce” attempted to increase prices? Can you readily switch to 
another manufacturer or distributor?  
7. The ACCC understands Liberty is the only local manufacturer of HRS and 
merchant bars. Please comment on whether domestic HSS manufacturers can 
readily ‘switch’ production to HRS and merchant bars in response to a price 
increase for those products. 
Import competition 
8. The ACCC understands that long steel products need to comply with Australian 
material standards. Please comment on the quality of imports compared with 
Australian long steel products. Do imports comply with Australian material 


 
 
5 
standards? Do they require additional processing once they have been imported 
in order to comply with Australian material standards? 
9. Do overseas suppliers have the full range of long steel products that you require? 
Can you readily import these products? 
10. Where relevant, please describe the types of long steel products that you import 
and are subject to current anti-dumping measures. How much duty is applied to 
each product? Which country do the products originate from? How long is the 
anti-dumping measure in place for? Is the product likely to be subject to anti-
dumping measures in the next two years? 
New entry 
11. Please identify any potential new wholesale supplier or new distributor of long 
steel products. What are the set up costs for potential entrants? Do they need 
sufficient customer volumes in order to enter? Have there been new entries/exits 
in the past?  
Other information or competition issues 
12. Please provide any additional information or comments, or identify other competition 
issues, that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s consideration of the proposed 
acquisition under section 50 of the Act. 
