 
Public Competition Assessment 
13 September 2011 
Asahi Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd - proposed acquisition of 
P&N Beverages Australia Pty Ltd and P&N Australia Pty Ltd 
 
Introduction 
1. 
On 9 March 2011, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
(ACCC) announced its decision to oppose the proposed acquisition of P&N 
Beverages Australia Pty Ltd (P&N) by Asahi Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd 
(Asahi) (the original proposal).  
2. 
The ACCC decided that the original proposal would be likely to have the effect 
of substantially lessening competition in the national market for the manufacture 
and wholesale supply of carbonated soft drinks (CSDs) and the national market 
for the manufacture and wholesale supply of cordial in contravention of section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). The ACCC considered 
that the original proposal was unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of 
competition in the national markets for the manufacture and wholesale supply of 
fruit juice and bottled water.  
3. 
Subsequently, Asahi lodged a revised proposal to acquire P&N Beverages 
Australia Pty Ltd and P&N Australia Pty Ltd (together, P&N). Asahi also 
proffered a section 87B undertaking (the Undertaking) to give effect to the 
revised proposal and to remedy the ACCC’s competition concerns. Pursuant to 
the Undertaking, Asahi will simultaneously divest the cordial and CSD business 
of P&N to Tru Blu Beverages Pty Ltd (TBB) and retain the water and juice 
business of P&N (the revised proposal). 
4. 
On 11 August 2011, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the revised 
proposal and to accept the Undertaking. The ACCC was of the view that the 
Undertaking would address the ACCC’s competition concerns in the national 
markets for the manufacture and wholesale supply of CSDs and cordial.  
5. 
The ACCC made its decisions on the basis of information provided by the merger 
parties and information obtained from the ACCC’s market inquiries. This Public 
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC reached its 
decisions on the original proposal, the revised proposal and the Undertaking, 
subject to confidentiality considerations.  


 
-2- 
Public Competition Assessment 
6. 
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its 
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for 
all transaction proposals where: 
 a merger is opposed; 
 a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings; 
 the merger parties seek such disclosure; or 
 a merger is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC considers 
should be made public. 
7. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the original 
proposal was opposed by the ACCC and the revised proposal was not opposed 
subject to a court enforceable undertaking. The proposals are also considered to 
raise issues of interest to the public. 
8. 
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the 
public with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets and 
the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the public to 
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in 
particular markets is changing, or likely to change.  
9. 
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction 
under review by the ACCC, including revisions to those transactions as in this 
case. While some transaction proposals may involve the same or related markets, 
it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision outlined in one Public 
Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s view in respect of 
other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered on its own merits.  
10. 
Public Competition Assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such, Public Competition Assessments may not definitively identify and explain 
all issues that the ACCC considers arise from a proposed acquisition. Further, the 
ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of both non-confidential and 
confidential information provided by the merger parties and market participants. 
In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular information, Public 
Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential information or its 
sources. 
The parties 
The Acquirer – Asahi Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd  
 
11. 
Japanese-based Asahi Group Holdings Ltd owns Asahi, the proposed acquirer, 
which in turn owns Schweppes Australia Pty Ltd (Schweppes). Asahi acquired 
Schweppes from Cadbury Schweppes in April 2009.   
 


 
-3- 
12. 
Schweppes manufactures and sells, at the wholesale level, a range of 
non-alcoholic beverages including CSDs, bottled water, fruit juice, energy drinks, 
cordials, sports drinks and iced tea. Table 1 lists the main categories of products 
and brands manufactured by Schweppes.  
Table 1 – Summary of Schweppes product categories and brands    
 
Product category 
Brands 
Pepsi  
Schweppes 
Solo 
Sunkist 
7-Up  
Mountain Dew 
Soft drink 
Passiona 
Tarax 
Cool Ridge 
Fiji Water 
Bottled water 
Spring Valley 
 
Fruit juice 
Spring Valley Juice  
 
Energy drink 
Monster 
 
Cordials  
Cottee’s 
 
Sports drinks 
Gatorade  
 
 
Source: Schweppes 
 
13. 
Schweppes sells its products to a wide range of retail outlets including 
supermarket chains, convenience stores, petrol stations and fast food outlets. 
Schweppes is also the manufacturer of the Pepsi range of CSDs in Australia, 
which it produces under licence from PepsiCo.  
14. 
Schweppes does not presently produce beverage products that are sold under 
brand names owned by retailers (referred to as ‘private label products’), 
however Schweppes has the necessary facilities and expertise to commence 
manufacturing and supplying private label products.  
The Target - P&N Beverages Australia Pty Ltd 
 
15. 
P&N is a privately owned manufacturer and wholesaler of non-alcoholic 
beverages including CSDs, bottled water, fruit juice, energy drinks, sports drinks 
and cordials. P&N’s product range includes products which are sold using P&N’s 
own brands (referred to as ‘branded products’) and private label products. P&N 
supplies private label products to Woolworths, Aldi, Metcash and Franklins. 
16. 
Table 2 lists the branded products supplied by P&N for each beverage category.       


 
-4- 
Table 2 – Summary of P&N’s product categories and brands    
Product category 
P&N’s brands 
 
LA Ice 
Ceda Creaming Soda 
Diet Rite 
Brewer’s Choice Ginger Beer
Tru Blu 
Crush 
Waterfords 
McSars Sarsaparilla 
Pub Squash 
Club 
Soft drink 
Lido Lemonade 
 
Bottled water 
Frantelle 
Tru Blu 
Mini Pops 
Pop Tops 
Glo 
Apple Time 
Fruit juice 
Extra Juicy 
Smart Juice 
Energy drink 
Wicked  
 
Cordials  
Extra Juicy 
Diet Rite 
Sports drinks 
Play 
 
 
Source: P&N Beverages  
 
17. 
P&N sells the majority of its products through the supermarket chains. The 
remainder of its products are sold through smaller, traditional retail outlets such 
as milk bars and take-away stores.  
Tru Blu Beverages 
18. 
TBB (ACN 151 411 764) is a newly incorporated entity owned by the founder 
and managing director of P&N. Pursuant to the Undertaking, the cordial and CSD 
business of P&N will transfer to TBB, along with key P&N management and 
personnel, including P&N’s founder and managing director. 
19. 
The effect of the revised proposal and Undertaking is that TBB will continue the 
operation of P&N’s current cordial and CSD business.  
Industry background 
20. 
Both Asahi and P&N supply products in what may broadly be described as the 
‘non-alcoholic ready-to-drink’ beverage industry (the industry). Estimates 
provided to the ACCC indicate that annual sales in the industry for the 2009-10 
financial year were between five and six billion dollars. 
21. 
The industry includes product categories such as CSDs, fruit juice, bottled water, 
cordials, sports drinks, energy drinks and iced tea. The industry’s key features 
include: 


 
-5- 
a) 
a small number of large, national firms that account for the vast majority of 
manufacturing and wholesale supply for each of the relevant products, with 
the remainder made up of a large number of small state-based or regional 
manufacturers; 
b) 
the majority of sales being attributed to branded products, but a growing 
market share of private label products; 
c) 
the use of different supply channels at the retail level to distribute and sell 
products; and 
d) 
the existence of a small number of significant buyers in the grocery 
channel. 
Carbonated soft drink  
22. 
CSD products are by far the largest segment of the industry. They account for 
annual retail sales of around $3.2 billion, or around 50% of total industry 
revenue.1 The products included in this category are cola and non-cola varieties, 
flavoured mineral waters and drink mixers. 
23. 
Coca Cola Amatil (CCA) and Schweppes are the largest suppliers of CSDs.  
P&N is the third largest supplier, and the only other significant national 
manufacturer of branded products. Private label products account for a significant 
and growing proportion of CSD revenue. 
Fruit juice  
24. 
Fruit juice (chilled and ambient) accounts for annual retail sales of between $700 
million and $800 million, or approximately 15% of industry revenue.2 Significant 
suppliers of fruit juice include National Foods (Berri), HJ Heinz (Golden Circle), 
P&N, Schweppes and Campbell’s Australia. Private label products account for 
around 7% of total juice sales by revenue. 
Bottled water 
25. 
Bottled water accounts for annual retail sales of between $600 million and 
$700 million, or approximately 10% of industry revenue.3 Large manufacturers of 
bottled water include CCA, P&N and Schweppes. Private label products also 
make up a significant proportion of the sales of bottled water.   
Cordial    
26. 
Cordial accounts for annual retail sales of between $150 million and $160 
million, or approximately 3-5% of industry revenue.4 Large manufacturers of 
cordial include Schweppes (Cottee’s), HJ Heinz (Golden Circle), P&N and 
Bickfords. Private label products account for a significant proportion of sales. 
                                                 
1 ACCC estimate based on figures provided by market participants. 
2 ACCC estimate based on figures provided by market participants. 
3 ACCC estimate based on figures provided by market participants. 
4 ACCC estimate based on figures provided by market participants. 


 
-6- 
Other beverages  
27. 
Sports drinks, energy drinks and iced teas collectively account for annual retail 
sales of approximately $1 billion, or 20% of industry revenue. P&N accounts for 
approximately $4 million of these sales, or less than 0.4% of sales for these 
products. P&N does not supply an iced tea product.       
Branded and private label products   
 
28. 
Another important feature of the industry is the historical dominance of branded 
products and the relatively recent and increasing challenge to that sector by 
private label products.  
Branded products   
29. 
Branding has developed as one of the most important factors on which firms 
compete across each of the relevant products. The industry’s top firms use brands 
to differentiate their products and invest significantly in marketing and 
advertising to create and protect brand loyalty. 
30. 
The most recognisable brands in the industry are found in the CSD market, 
namely Coca-Cola, Pepsi and Schweppes. There are also a number of well known 
fruit juice brands (Berri and Golden Circle), cordial brands (Cottee’s) and bottled 
water brands (Mount Franklin and Pump). 
31. 
There are a number of benefits associated with having well known brands within 
a manufacturer’s portfolio. Well known brands tend to be priced much higher 
than lesser known brands and private labels. Customer awareness, familiarity and 
preference for these branded products generally allow suppliers to charge a 
premium over the prices of lesser known products.   
Private label  
32. 
While brand is considered to be a key point of differentiation in the various 
product markets, price is another key area in which firms compete. Each of the 
product markets has seen an increase in consumer acceptance of private label 
beverages in recent years which has resulted in an increase in competition 
between branded and private label products. 
33. 
P&N is the largest supplier of private label beverages in Australia while the 
remaining suppliers of private label beverages tend to be smaller, regional based 
suppliers. 
34. 
Private label products perform an important role in each of the relevant markets, 
as they enable retailers to offer consumers greater choice and variety across a 
broader range of price points. In particular, the lowest priced products in any 
given category are typically private label products.   
35. 
In order to achieve economies of scale, a private label manufacturer needs to have 
the capacity to produce large volumes of product to minimise fixed and 
procurement costs per unit of output. In P&N’s case, additional scale has been 


 
-7- 
achieved through supplying multiple private label customers as well as producing 
products under its own brands.  
Supply channels  
 
36. 
The products manufactured by the merger parties are distributed and sold through 
supply channels referred to as either the ‘measured market’ or the ‘non-measured 
market’.   
37. 
The measured market consists of the following distribution channels:  
a) 
Grocery channel: Consists mainly of supermarkets and accounts for 
approximately 60% (approximately $3 billion) of gross annual revenue for 
the industry.  The grocery channel is characterised by higher turnover and 
lower margins compared to the other channels. The grocery channel is by 
far the largest of the supply channels and is characterised by the existence 
of a number of large buyers of the relevant products such as Coles, 
Woolworths, Metcash and Aldi. 
 
b) 
Traditional route: Refers to milk bars, restaurants, take-away food outlets, 
bakeries and other outlets with accessible drinks fridges and accounts for 
approximately 30% (approximately $1.5 billion) of gross annual revenue.  
The traditional route is characterised by lower turnover and higher margins 
than the grocery channels as well as providing an avenue for manufacturers 
to trial new beverages.  
 
c) 
Petrol station and convenience store channel: Accounts for 
approximately 10% (approximately $0.5 billion) of gross annual revenue 
for the industry.  
 
d) 
New channels: Refers to outlets such as schools, sporting events, video 
shops and food courts for which minimal data is available.      
 
38. 
The non-measured market consists of channels such as bars, clubs, hotels, cafes, 
restaurants and cinemas where beverages are less likely to be sold in measured 
quantities. P&N does not supply the non-measured market (all of its products are 
bottled and it does not supply post-mix product). 
The proposed transactions 
Original proposal 
39. 
Under the original proposal, Asahi proposed to acquire 100% of the shares in 
P&N. As indicated above, the ACCC opposed the original proposal on the basis 
that it would be likely to substantially lessen competition in the national market 
for the manufacture and wholesale supply of CSDs and in the national market for 
the manufacture and wholesale supply of cordial. In its decision on the original 
proposal the ACCC did not identify any competition concerns with respect to the 
manufacture and supply of fruit juice or bottled water. 


 
-8- 
Revised proposal 
40. 
Following the ACCC’s decision on 9 March 2011 to oppose the original 
proposal, Asahi lodged a revised proposal to acquire P&N and simultaneously 
divest P&N’s CSD and cordial business to TBB pursuant to a section 87B 
undertaking. The undertaking also provides for divestiture of P&N’s energy drink 
business as this was unable to be easily separated from the CSD business. 
41. 
Under the revised proposal, Asahi will retain only the P&N assets (including 
manufacturing plants, production lines, brand names, trade marks and staff 
transfers) required to conduct P&N’s fruit juice and bottled water business.  
42. 
TBB will retain one of P&N’s manufacturing plants and will build two new 
manufacturing plants in Queensland and Western Australia. In addition, 
Schweppes will transfer certain production lines to TBB and will provide TBB 
with contract packing services until TBB’s new manufacturing sites are 
established and Schweppes’ production lines are transported and installed in 
TBB’s new facilities. This arrangement, including the structure of both entities 
post-acquisition, is discussed in the analysis of the Undertaking section below. 
43. 
As part of the revised proposal, TBB will retain the “P&N” and “Pure & Natural” 
trade marks, although Asahi will have a six month transitional licence to use 
these names while labels and packaging are changed. TBB will also retain all 
brand names and trade marks associated with P&N’s CSD and energy drink 
products. P&N will not retain the brand name ‘Extra Juicy’ but will retain the 
brand name ‘Diet Rite’. 
Timeline 
44. 
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
01-Sep-2010 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines. 
27-Sep-2010 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
02-Dec-2010 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary competition 
concerns. 
20-Dec-2010 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
09-Mar-2011 
ACCC announced it would oppose the original proposal. 
13-July-2011 
Draft section 87B undertaking proffered by Asahi. ACCC commenced 
market inquiries on the draft undertaking. 
11-Aug-2011 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the revised proposal subject to the 
court enforceable undertaking offered by Asahi. 


 
-9- 
Market inquiries 
45. 
The ACCC considered information gathered from market participants and 
conducted targeted market inquiries on the original proposal, revised proposal 
and Undertaking. Submissions were sought in relation to the substantive 
competition issues arising from the original proposal, revised proposal and the 
Undertaking. 
With/without test 
46. 
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider 
the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely competitive environment 
post-merger if the transaction proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely 
competitive environment if the transaction does not proceed (the “without” 
position). 
47. 
Based on confidential information, the ACCC considered that if the original 
proposal or revised proposal did not proceed, it was likely that P&N would be 
acquired by an alternative bidder or, in the event that P&N was not acquired by 
an alternative bidder, P&N would continue to operate as an independent supplier 
of beverages. 
Market Definition 
48. 
The ACCC considered there to be separate national markets for the manufacture 
and wholesale supply of: CSDs, cordial, fruit juice, bottled water, energy drinks 
and sports drinks. 
49. 
The ACCC formed the view that the extent of demand side substitutability 
between these products was insufficient to define a broader product market. 
While consumers may purchase products from several product categories, 
information obtained from market inquiries suggested that switching between 
different beverage categories in response to a price increase was limited and not 
of a scale that would suggest that such products operate in the same product 
market.  
50. 
Similarly, the ACCC considered it unlikely that retailers would substitute from 
one product category to another category in response to a price increase. Retailers 
need to stock a range of product categories to best meet consumer demand. 
51. 
The ACCC also considered the extent of supply side substitutability between 
CSDs, cordial, fruit juice, bottled water, energy drinks and sports drinks. The 
ACCC noted that the overlap in terms of equipment which can produce more than 
one type of beverage is limited and significant new investment would be required 
to switch a production line between beverage categories. Manufacturing lines 
generally require specific pieces of equipment to be incorporated to produce 
specific types of beverages (to carbonate or pasteurise a beverage, for example). 
52. 
The ACCC noted that, particularly for branded products, significant time and 
investment is required to create brand loyalty and establish a successful brand. 


 
-10- 
The ACCC considered that the need to invest heavily in brands and differentiate 
products from those of other suppliers would be likely to limit the extent of 
switching between product categories from a supply side perspective. The ACCC 
recognised that branding is less relevant to value conscious consumers, in particular 
those consumers which place a greater importance on value for money when 
comparing products from the same category that deliver similar functionality or 
benefits.  
53. 
Within product categories, the ACCC considered that private label and branded 
beverages operate in the same product market. While not perfect substitutes, the 
ACCC found the extent of customer substitution between private label and 
branded products is sufficient to include such products in the same product 
market. Further, the ACCC considered that private label products provide a 
significant and increasing competitive constraint on branded products.  
54. 
With respect to the relevant geographic markets, information provided by the 
merger parties and information arising from market inquiries suggested that the 
markets for the above beverages are national markets. The beverages sold by 
P&N and Asahi and their major competitors are branded and marketed nationally. 
Similarly, P&N’s and Asahi’s major customers in the grocery channel generally 
acquire these products on a national basis rather than on a state or regional basis.  
55. 
The ACCC noted, however, the existence in some instances of regional 
competitive dynamics with some small industry players operating in certain 
regions and not on a national basis. 
56. 
In light of the above, the ACCC concluded that there were separate national 
markets for the manufacture and wholesale supply of CSDs, cordial, fruit juice, 
bottled water, energy drinks and sports drinks. 
Statement of Issues 
57. 
As part of its review of the original proposal, the ACCC published a Statement of 
Issues on 2 December 2010 identifying a number of competition issues. In the 
Statement of Issues the ACCC’s preliminary view was that the original proposal 
raised competition concerns in a number of markets. In particular, the ACCC 
identified concerns in the CSD, cordial, water and juice markets. 
Competition analysis – original proposal 
Competition analysis – National market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of 
CSDs 
58. 
In its review of the original proposal, the ACCC concluded that it would have the 
effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the 
national market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of CSDs. 
59. 
The ACCC was concerned that the original proposal would remove P&N as a 
vigorous and effective competitor in the national market for the wholesale supply 


 
-11- 
of CSDs. The ACCC considered that P&N acts to constrain the prices of branded 
CSDs supplied by its competitors, including key players Schweppes and CCA. 
60. 
P&N is the third largest supplier of CSDs in Australia. P&N’s brands are the only 
CSDs sold in the grocery channel other than CCA, Schweppes and private label 
products, with a notable share of sales across a variety of different types of CSDs. 
Based on confidential information, the ACCC found that Schweppes responds 
competitively to the pricing, sales and promotional activities undertaken by P&N 
in relation to its branded products.  
61. 
Outside of its branded products, P&N is the largest supplier of private label CSDs 
in Australia. The ACCC noted that private label CSDs are an important part of a 
retailer’s product portfolio and are sold side-by-side with the beverages of 
Schweppes and CCA. The competitive supply of private label CSDs enables 
retailers to offer consumers greater choice and variety of CSD products across a 
range of price points. 
62. 
The ACCC considered that a competitive tension exists between proprietary 
brands and private label CSDs. In particular, private label is a growing category 
within the CSD market and in most instances acts as a competitive threat to rival 
brands.  
63. 
The ACCC found that CSD suppliers compete closely on price as well as brand, 
and that private label CSDs (including P&N’s low price branded CSDs) provide 
downward pressure on the prices of branded CSDs. The ACCC noted that P&N 
provokes a competitive response from rivals in terms of discounting, product 
innovation and promotional activities.  
64. 
The ACCC considered that barriers to entry and expansion in the CSD market, 
for both branded and private label beverages, are significant and would likely 
deter new entry in the market. As such, the ACCC considered it unlikely that, 
post-acquisition, a new manufacturer would enter the market for the national 
wholesale supply of CSDs to effectively constrain the merged entity. The ACCC 
also considered it unlikely that an existing manufacturer of CSDs would expand 
its operations so as to provide an effective competitive constraint on the merged 
entity.  
65. 
The ACCC considered that scale requirements constitute a barrier which would 
deter new entry or expansion in the national market for wholesale supply of 
CSDs. Private label CSD manufacturers submitted that economies of scale are 
required to supply CSDs and compete effectively on a national basis. Having a 
national presence requires the establishment of multiple manufacturing sites to 
minimise transportation costs. It also requires high-volume production to 
minimise fixed costs per unit of output. 
66. 
Establishing a national presence would add significant additional capacity to the 
existing market and present a significant business risk in terms of sunk costs. 
Furthermore, small manufacturers would be unlikely to be able to expand to a 
sufficient scale within a reasonable time so as to provide an effective competitive 
constraint in the market.  


 
-12- 
67. 
In relation to branded CSDs, the ACCC considered the key barrier to entry to be 
the sunk costs and risks associated with CSD brand development. The market for 
CSDs is characterised by strong brand loyalty with substantial market shares held 
by the branded offerings of CCA and Schweppes. The ACCC considered that 
these factors act as further barriers to entry in the market for CSDs. 
68. 
On the basis of confidential information obtained from market participants, the 
ACCC concluded that retailers would face significant barriers in successfully 
supporting new entry for the wholesale supply of private label or branded CSDs.  
69. 
Schweppes currently does not produce any private label CSDs. If the original 
proposal were to proceed, it would result in Schweppes having a significant 
presence in both branded CSDs and private label CSDs. 
70. 
In light of the competitive constraint provided by P&N and the relatively high 
barriers to entry and expansion for both branded and private label CSDs, the 
ACCC concluded that the merged entity would have the ability and incentive to 
unilaterally increase the wholesale price of either branded CSDs, private label 
CSDs or both post-acquisition such that the original proposal would result in a 
substantial lessening of competition in this market.  
Competition analysis – National market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of 
Cordial 
71. 
The ACCC concluded that the original proposal would have the effect, or be 
likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in the national 
market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of cordial. 
72. 
As neither P&N nor Schweppes produce private label cordial the ACCC’s 
analysis of this market focused on the branded product offerings from the merger 
parties and other market participants.  
73. 
The ACCC considered that Schweppes and P&N are close competitors in the 
cordial market and that Schweppes responds competitively to the pricing, sales 
and promotional activity of P&N.  
74. 
P&N is an aggressive discounter and has been successful in winning market share 
from Schweppes. The ACCC noted examples of where P&N has acted as a 
market leader in terms of price, product innovation and development, provoking a 
competitive response from Schweppes. The ACCC was concerned that if the 
original proposal were to proceed, it would remove P&N as a vigorous and 
effective competitor in the cordial market.  
75. 
Post-acquisition, the merged entity would have an aggregate market share of 
around 53% by revenue and would be approximately three times as large as its 
nearest competitor, Golden Circle (17%). While there are other sources of 
competition such as Golden Circle, the ACCC considered that these are limited 
and the constraints would be insufficient to replace the competition lost by the 
removal of P&N such that Schweppes would have the ability and incentive to 
unilaterally increase the prices of cordial products. 


 
-13- 
76. 
In addition, the ACCC considered that barriers to entry or expansion in this 
market are high and would deter new entry. In relation to branded cordial 
products, the ACCC considered that there are significant sunk costs in 
establishing a successful brand. The ACCC also considered that achieving the 
necessary minimum efficient scale of production is a key barrier to entry.  
77. 
In light of the above, the ACCC concluded that the original proposal was likely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in the national market for the 
manufacture and wholesale supply of cordial.  
Competition analysis – National market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of 
fruit juice 
78. 
The ACCC concluded that the original proposal was unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in the market for fruit juice. 
79. 
The ACCC concluded that Schweppes was unlikely to gain any significant 
additional market power as a result of the original proposal. National Foods and 
HJ Heinz (Golden Circle) account for 34% and 18% of fruit juice sales 
respectively while the merged entity would account for 16% of sales for its 
branded products. Furthermore, Schweppes’ fruit juice products are 
predominantly sold through the traditional route trade while P&N’s fruit juice 
products are predominantly sold through the grocery channel.  
80. 
Based on information obtained from market participants, the ACCC considered 
that National Foods and HJ Heinz are strong competitors in the fruit juice market. 
The ACCC concluded that, post-acquisition, the merged entity would continue to 
be constrained by National Foods and HJ Heinz such that any attempt by the 
merged entity to increase the price of its branded fruit juice products would likely 
result in sales being diverted to either National Foods or HJ Heinz. 
Competition analysis – National market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of 
bottled water 
81. 
The ACCC concluded that the original proposal was unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in the market for bottled water. 
82. 
The ACCC considered that the original proposal would not result in a significant 
aggregation of market shares in the bottled water market. If the original proposal 
were to proceed, the merged entity would have a market share of around 18%. 
Other notable market participants include CCA which has a market share of 
around 50% and Frucor with a market share of around 4.9%. 
83. 
The ACCC noted that the market for bottled water is characterised by a large 
number of small competitors which have a significant degree of excess capacity. 
The ACCC considered that this excess capacity would act to competitively 
constrain the merged entity in response to a price increase. 
84. 
The ACCC concluded that it was unlikely that the merged entity would have the 
ability or incentive to unilaterally increase prices in this market.  


 
-14- 
Competition analysis – National market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of 
energy drinks 
85. 
The ACCC concluded that the original proposal was unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in the market for energy drinks. 
86. 
While both P&N and Schweppes manufacture energy drinks, three other 
manufacturers, Frucor Beverages Ltd (manufacturer of ‘V’), Red Bull Ltd and 
CCA (manufacturer of ‘Mother’) account for around 90% of sales. 
87. 
Schweppes is the fourth largest manufacturer of energy drinks with a 4% share of 
sales. P&N accounts for less than 1% of sales and it is not considered to be a 
vigorous competitor in this market. 
Competition analysis – National market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of 
sports drinks 
88. 
The ACCC concluded that the original proposal was unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in the market for sports drinks. 
89. 
Schweppes’ (Gatorade) and CCA’s (Powerade) products account for around 93% 
of sports drink sales. P&N (Play) accounts for less than 1% of sales and 
information obtained through market inquiries suggested that it is not an 
especially well known or vigorous and effective competitor in this market.  
Conclusion – original proposal 
90. 
On the basis of the above, the ACCC formed the view that the original proposal 
would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in the national market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of 
CSDs and the national market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of 
cordial in contravention of section 50 of the Act. 


 
-15- 
Undertaking 
91. 
On 13 July 2011 Asahi proffered a draft section 87B undertaking to address the 
ACCC’s competition concerns with the original proposal in the markets for 
cordial and CSDs.   
92. 
The Undertaking provides for Asahi to give effect to the revised proposal by 
divesting the CSD and cordial business (the C&C Business) of P&N to the 
ACCC Approved Purchaser, TBB, on the same day as, and interdependent with, 
the simultaneous completion of Asahi’s acquisition of P&N. The assets to be 
divested to TBB include brands, relevant intellectual property rights, certain 
manufacturing facilities and the transfer of employees (the Divestiture 
Business).  
93. 
Asahi must also comply with an ACCC approved co-packing agreement with 
TBB. This is discussed below at paragraphs 102-103.  
94. 
The effect of the Undertaking will be that Asahi will retain only the water, sports 
drink and juice business (W&J Business) of P&N.  
95. 
The Undertaking aims to maintain the competition which existed before Asahi’s 
proposed acquisition of P&N through: 
 the maintenance of a viable, effective, stand-alone independent and long 
term competitor in the CSD and cordial markets; 
 ensuring that TBB has the necessary assets, rights and agreements to 
compete effectively with Asahi; 
 maintaining the economic viability, marketability, competitiveness and 
goodwill of the Divestiture Businesses prior to divestiture; 
 enabling TBB to supply the product and service offerings which are part 
of the Divestiture Businesses independently and without ongoing 
reliance upon Asahi; 
 ensuring that any approved co-packing agreements between Asahi and 
TBB will be for a short period, at arm’s length and on terms no less 
favourable than normal commercial terms; and 
 the effective oversight of Asahi’s compliance with the Undertaking. 
96. 
The impact of the Undertaking in the CSD and cordial markets is discussed 
below. 
Impact of the Undertaking in cordial and CSD markets 
97. 
Under the revised proposal and pursuant to the Undertaking, TBB will 
simultaneously acquire the manufacturing facilities, brands, personnel, 
intellectual property rights and other assets necessary to operate the C&C 
Business.  


 
-16- 
98. 
TBB will effectively retain one of P&N’s manufacturing plants and will build 
two new manufacturing plants in Queensland and Western Australia. In addition, 
Schweppes will transfer certain production lines to TBB which are necessary for 
the operation of the C&C Business and will provide TBB with contract packing 
services until TBB’s new manufacturing sites are established and Schweppes’ 
production lines are transported and installed in TBB’s new facilities.  
99. 
The co-packing agreement is intended to enable TBB to operate the Divestiture 
Business on an ongoing basis, and on terms no less favourable than normal 
commercial terms, from the date Asahi acquires P&N and during the period in 
which the supply chain of the C&C Business is separated from the W&J Business 
of P&N.  
100. The ACCC considered whether TBB would have sufficient capacity in cordial 
and CSDs to be a viable, effective, independent and long term competitor in the 
cordial and CSD markets. Based on confidential information obtained from the 
merger parties the ACCC concluded that TBB’s capacity in CSDs and cordial 
will be larger than P&N’s current capacity in those markets.  
101. TBB will retain all trade marks and brand names associated with P&N’s CSD 
business under the revised proposal and, as such, the ACCC concluded these 
brands will continue to provide a competitive constraint on other market 
participants.  
102. The ACCC also concluded that TBB will remain a vigorous and effective 
competitor in the cordial market. The ACCC considered that the loss of the ‘Extra 
Juicy’ brand in relation to P&N’s cordial assets to be acquired by TBB would not 
substantially diminish TBB’s ability to act as a strong competitor in this market 
given TBB’s retention of the Diet Rite brand and its future re-branding of what is 
currently Extra Juicy cordial. 
103. In its review of the original proposal, the ACCC considered that P&N’s low cost, 
high volume structure was an important factor in its ability to compete vigorously 
and effectively in its relevant markets — particularly in relation to private label 
beverage manufacturing. The ACCC therefore considered what impacts the 
revised proposal, including the interim co-packing arrangement with Schweppes 
and the reduced overall production volumes from the cessation of TBB’s juice 
and water businesses, would have on TBB’s cost structure and ability to 
manufacture at low cost. Based on confidential information obtained from P&N, 
the ACCC concluded that the revised proposal will not prevent TBB from 
becoming an effective low-cost, high volume manufacturer of CSDs and cordial.  
Conclusion  
104. On 11 August 2011, the ACCC accepted the court enforceable Undertaking given 
by Asahi, pursuant to section 87B of the Act, to remedy the competition concerns 
that arise as a result of the original proposal in the national markets for the 
manufacture and wholesale supply of CSDs and cordial. 
105. Based on the results of market inquiries and its assessment of TBB as the 
Approved Purchaser of the Divestiture Business, the ACCC formed the view that 


 
-17- 
TBB would be likely to provide an ongoing and effective competitive constraint 
in the national markets for the manufacture and wholesale supply of CSDs and 
cordial. 
106. The Undertaking is available on the Section 87B Undertakings Register on the 
ACCC website at www.accc.gov.au. 
Conclusion 
107. The ACCC decided that the original proposal by Asahi to acquire 100% of the 
issued shares in P&N would be likely to substantially lessen competition in the 
national market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of CSDs and the 
national market for the manufacture and wholesale supply of cordial in 
contravention of section 50 of the Act. 
108. The ACCC subsequently concluded that the Undertaking offered by Asahi would 
address the ACCC’s competition concerns in the national markets for the 
manufacture and wholesale supply of CSDs and cordial. Accordingly, the ACCC 
announced its decision on 11 August 2011 not to oppose the revised proposal and 
to accept the Undertaking.  
