 
Our ref: 
IM-72998  
 
 
 
3 September 2025 
Dear Interested Party 
Re:  Request for submissions: Cuscal Limited’s proposed acquisition of Indue 
Limited 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on Cuscal 
Limited’s (Cuscal) proposed acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital in Indue Limited 
(Indue) (the proposed acquisition). 
Cuscal and Indue both supply payment facilitation services, which encapsulate all of the functions 
that facilitate the passing of messages between payers, financial institutions and payees in the 
payment flow. More specifically, Cuscal and Indue overlap in the provision of account-to-account 
payment facilitation services (including switching and messaging through NPP, BECS and BPay 
and ESA settlement) and card issuing payment facilitation services (including credit, debit and 
prepaid card processing, BIN sponsorship, card switching, card management services and digital 
card provisioning). Cuscal and Indue also offer non-payment specific services such as fraud 
mitigation services. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact of the proposed acquisition on competition. In 
particular, we are seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Cuscal and Indue compete in the supply of payment facilitation services; 
• 
the extent to which alternative suppliers of payment facilitation services would competitively 
constrain the merged entity; and 
• 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on the pricing and service quality of payment 
facilitation services.  
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 50 of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely to have 
the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 2pm on 17 September 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au 
with the title: Submission re: Cuscal’s proposed acquisition of Indue. If you require more time to 
respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions 
about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 


Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will 
notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore 
please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager  
Merger Assessments  
 
 
 
 


Attachment A 
 
The acquirer – Cuscal 
Cuscal is an ASX-listed (ASX: CCL) payment facilitation company operating in Australia. 
Cuscal is also an authorised deposit-taking institution (ADI).  
Cuscal offers clients the ability to obtain end-to-end payment facilitation across merchant 
acquiring, switching and messaging through the BECS, NPP and BPAY payment rails, card 
and ATM switching, ESA settling, credit, debit and pre-paid card processing, digital card 
provisioning, BIN sponsorship, Consumer Data Right solutions and fraud mitigation.  
The target – Indue  
Indue is a payment facilitation company operating in Australia, and is also an ADI.  
Indue offers payment facilitation services for its clients to switch and message through the 
NPP, BECS and BPAY payment rails, ESA settlement, and supplies credit and debit card 
processing for issuers, pre-paid card management, fraud mitigation and digital card 
provisioning. Indue is also an aggregator of certain third-party payment facilitation services, 
such as card switching, which it on-supplies to clients.  
Industry background 
Payment facilitation services encapsulate the functions that facilitate the passing of 
messages between payers, financial institutions and payees in the payment flow. This may 
include switching or messaging through one or more of the payment schemes, (Visa, 
Mastercard, eftpos, BPAY, New Payments Platform (NPP) and the Bulk Electronic Clearing 
System (BECS)), BIN sponsorship, card and ATM switching, credit, debit and prepaid card 
processing, data and fraud mitigation services and back-office support.   
Cuscal and Indue both provide payment facilitation services to businesses in Australia 
including mutual banks, fintech companies and corporate clients. Indue also provides 
services to some government clients in Australia.  
Payment facilitation services can be supplied as individual components or as an end-to-end 
service covering all aspects of the payment flow, from providers such as Cuscal or Indue. 
Alternatively, customers may choose to build their own end-to-end solution by obtaining 
different components of payment processing services from different suppliers. Customers 
may also choose to self-supply some components of the payment flow. 
 
 


Attachment B 
1. Provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including any 
commercial relationship(s) with Cuscal and/or Indue. 
The questions below are divided into questions for customers and competitors, but you are 
welcome to comment on any question/s in any category.  
Questions for customers 
3. Please identify and explain the types of payment facilitation services you procure in 
Australia and identify the current suppliers of each of these services. 
a. Please explain whether you procure these services as an end-to-end solution, or 
procure different components from different suppliers, and reasons for this. 
4. For each payment facilitation service you procure in Australia, please identify and 
describe the alternative suppliers capable of servicing your needs. In your response, 
please identify any suppliers you consider particularly effective competitors (for example, 
through their prices, innovation or service offering). 
5. Please explain whether you consider Cuscal and Indue are close competitors in the 
supply of payment facilitation services. In your response, please consider factors such as 
the types of services the parties supply, the quality of these services, levels of innovation 
and the reputation of both parties.  
6. Please describe how you procure different types of payment facilitation services, for 
example, through formal tender or other methods, including typical contract duration.  
7. Please discuss whether you would have the ability to bypass supply of any of the 
payment facilitation services from the combined Cuscal-Indue by either self-supplying or 
supporting a new provider to commence supplying these services. Please provide 
examples where possible. 
8. Please describe how you expect your procurement of payment facilitation services to be 
affected by the proposed acquisition.  
Questions for competitors  
9. 
Please identify and explain the payment facilitation services you supply in Australia. 
10. Please identify your competitors for the supply of each service you supply. Please 
estimate market shares where possible. 
11. Discuss the likelihood of, and timeframe for, new entry or expansion in the supply of 
payment facilitation services, including any barriers to entry. Please provide examples of 
recent entry where possible. 
Other  
12. Please provide any additional information that you consider relevant to the ACCC’s 
consideration of the proposed acquisition. 
13. Please discuss the importance of innovation, research and development in the supply of 
payment facilitation services in Australia. 
