Page 1 of 16 
 
Statement of Issues 
19 December 2019 
 Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of the business 
assets of Pacific Magazines 
 
Purpose 
1. 
Bauer Media Pty Limited (Bauer) proposes to acquire the business assets of 
Pacific Magazines Pty Ltd (Pacific Magazines).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the preliminary views of the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission (ACCC) on competition issues arising from the proposed 
acquisition;  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry; and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist our 
assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not necessarily represent 
a full articulation of the ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
set out in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to 
have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of concern', 
'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise concerns’. In this 
Statement of Issues there are two issues of concern and one issue that may 
raise concerns.  


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 2 of 16 
Issues of concern 
6. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition by reducing the number of major print magazine 
publishers in key magazine categories from two to one. The focus of the ACCC’s 
concerns is in relation to the loss of competition in the supply of content to 
readers/consumers between Woman’s Day (owned by Bauer) and New Idea 
(owned by Pacific Magazines) and the loss of competition between Take 5 
(owned by Bauer) and That’s Life! (owned by Pacific Magazines).  
Issues that may raise concerns 
7. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition may substantially 
lessen competition by removing the competitive tension for the acquisition of 
content from third party providers. In particular, the ACCC is focussed on the 
loss of competition for the acquisition of rights to exclusive photos.  
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
8. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in relation to the supply of content to readers/consumers in 
the following categories in which the parties overlap: 
 
Home & garden; 
 
Celebrity; 
 
Fashion & lifestyle; 
 
Health & fitness;  
 
Puzzles;  
 
Food; and 
 
Parenting. 
9. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in relation to:  
 
the supply of advertising services to advertisers; 
 
the acquisition of distribution services; and 
 
the acquisition of printing services. 
Making a submission 
10. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
the extent to which consumers consider alternative media channels, 
including online and social media, to be effective substitutes to the parties’ 
titles, particularly Woman’s Day, New Idea, Take 5 and That’s Life!;  


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 3 of 16 
 
the value that consumers place on the curation, collation and mix of 
content in those magazines;  
 
the price sensitivity of readers, and the extent to which magazine sales 
would fall if cover prices increased more than they have historically, or if 
the frequency or quality of promotions and gifts with purchase reduced; 
 
the extent of rivalry between the parties with respect to sourcing or 
developing content; 
 
the proportion of content that is supplied by third parties to magazines on 
an exclusive basis; 
 
the extent to which content (such as exclusive photographs) that is 
supplied by third parties to magazines is also suitable for other media 
channels like newspapers and online websites; 
 
the potential for an alternate purchaser to acquire Pacific Magazines as a 
whole, or individual titles in its portfolio; and 
 
the likelihood of New Idea and That’s Life closing if the transaction does 
not proceed. 
11. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
12. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 14 
February 2020. Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Bauer Media/Pacific Magazines - attention Jonathan 
Koay/Sophie Musker. If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers 
over the telephone or in person, or have any questions about this Statement of 
Issues, please contact Jonathan Koay on 03 9658 6436 or Sophie Musker on 03 
9658 6408.  
13. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 2 April 2020, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes in relation to timing 
and to find relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers 
Register on the ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-
registers/public-informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
14. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We 
will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) 
unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information legislation 
or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition 
and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 4 of 16 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
15. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
16. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
 
Date 
Event 
23 October 2019 
ACCC commenced review of the proposed acquisition 
19 December 2019 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
14 February 2020 
Deadline for submissions from interested parties in 
response to this Statement of Issues 
2 April 2020 
Anticipated date for ACCC final decision  
The parties 
Bauer Media 
17. 
Bauer is a publisher of content in magazines (print and digital versions) and on 
digital platforms.  
18. 
Bauer is part of the Bauer Media Group, which is based in Hamburg, Germany. 
Bauer Media Group is a privately owned international media company publishing 
over 600 magazine titles globally. 
19. 
Bauer’s titles in categories that overlap with Pacific Magazines are set out in 
Table 1 below. 
Pacific Magazines 
20. 
Pacific Magazines is a publisher of content in magazines (print and digital 
versions) and on digital platforms. 
21. 
Pacific Magazines is a wholly-owned subsidiary of ASX-listed Seven West Media 
Limited (SWM). SWM is a national media provider across television, magazine 
and newspaper publishing and online platforms.  


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 5 of 16 
22. 
ASX-listed Seven Group Holdings Limited (SGH) has a 41 per cent shareholding 
in SWM. SGH is an Australian diversified operating and investment group with 
businesses and investments across industrial services, oil and gas and media.  
23. 
Pacific Magazines’ titles in categories that overlap with Bauer are set out in 
Table 1 below. 
Overlap between the parties 
Table 1 – Bauer and Pacific Magazines titles by overlap category 
Bauer 
Pacific Magazines  
Category referred to as “Women’s interest” in industry documents 
Australian Women’s Weekly  
New Idea  
Woman’s Day  
New Idea Royals  
It’s Your Day 
 
Real life category 
Take 5 
That’s Life!  
Take 5 Monthly  
That’s Life! Monthly  
Home & Garden category 
Belle 
Better Homes & Gardens  
Country Style 
Home Beautiful  
Australian House & Garden  
 
Inside Out 
 
Real Living  
 
Celebrity category 
NW 
Who  
OK! 
 
Fashion & Lifestyle category 
Elle 
InStyle  
Harper’s Bazaar  
Marie Claire  
Health & fitness category 
Good Health 
Women’s Health  
 
Men’s Health  
Puzzles category 
Take 5 Pocket Puzzler 
Better Homes & Gardens Puzzle Book  
Take 5 Mega Puzzler 
Better Homes & Gardens Code Cracker  
Woman’s Day Super Puzzler 
Better Homes & Gardens Sudoku Book  
Australian Women’s Weekly Puzzle Book  
New Idea Jumbo Puzzler  


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 6 of 16 
NW Trivia & Puzzles  
New Idea Mr Wisdom’s Whopper 
 
Family Circle Puzzle Book  
 
That’s Life! Bumper Puzzle Book 
 
That’s Life! Puzzler on the Go 
 
That’s Life! Crack the Code  
 
That’s Life! Wordsearch  
 
Mr Wisdom Presents Australia’s Own 
Sudoku 
Food category 
Australian Gourmet Traveller 
Family Circle  
Australian Women’s Weekly Food 
 
Parenting category 
The Bounty Pregnancy Booklet 
Practical Parenting website  
The Bounty Baby Care Booklet 
 
Changes in media markets 
24. 
Consistent with the forward looking nature of section 50, the ACCC is 
considering the dynamic characteristics of the relevant markets and the potential 
for change in the foreseeable future.  
25. 
The trends in the media sector were considered closely in the ACCC’s Digital 
Platform Inquiry final report published in July 2019. The supply of content to 
readers/consumers, and the supply of advertising opportunities to advertisers, 
has been subject to significant change over the last decade. This is reflected in 
the changing ways in which consumers access content, and the media channels 
used by advertisers to target potential customers. Print magazines are facing 
increasing challenges from other media channels, in particular from online 
sources. 
26. 
The ACCC has conducted this review with reference to recent industry analysis 
that the Australian magazine publishing industry has been in decline and is likely 
to continue to decline, both in terms of magazine circulation and revenue, and 
advertising revenue.  
27. 
In contrast, digital media has been growing, with many consumers increasing 
their consumption of content via digital media. Advertisers too, are increasing 
their advertising spend on digital media over time and moving away from 
traditional media channels such as magazines. 
Future with and without the acquisition  
28. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future state of 


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 7 of 16 
competition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
state of competition if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” position) to 
determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially lessen 
competition in any relevant market. 
29. 
The ACCC has not come to a concluded view on the likely future without the 
proposed acquisition but, in the context of falling demand for print magazines 
and the shift to online content suppliers, is considering the likelihood that Bauer 
and Pacific Magazines would: 
 
discontinue magazine titles, reduce the investment made in producing 
content or reduce the frequency or value of gifts/promotions with 
purchases; 
 
raise magazine cover prices; or 
 
combine with another buyer. 
30. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that absent the acquisition, both parties will 
continue to produce and supply Woman’s Day, New Idea, Take 5 and That’s Life 
at least in the medium term. 
31. 
The ACCC invites comments from industry participants on what will occur in the 
future without the acquisition. 
Relevant markets 
32. 
Media markets can be characterised by their interdependent two-sided nature. 
Suppliers of media platforms acquire or develop content to attract consumers, 
which in turn attracts advertisers. Each of Bauer and Pacific Magazines produce 
print and online magazines, websites and social media channels that supply 
content to readers, and supply advertising opportunities to advertisers who wish 
to reach those readers.  
33. 
Because print and digital magazines are two-sided in nature it is necessary to 
consider the inter-related nature of demand. For example, a decrease in demand 
by readers for a particular magazine will be likely to lead to a decrease in 
demand from advertisers for advertising in the same magazine. 
From a reader/consumer perspective   
34. 
Bauer and Pacific Magazines supply content on a variety of subjects to 
readers/consumers by way of print and digital magazines and online websites.  
35. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that there are separate markets for each of the 
subject categories listed in Table 1 above. The categories that are of particular 
interest to the ACCC are the category in which Woman’s Day and New Idea 
compete, and the category in which Take 5 and That’s Life! compete.  
36. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that digital media channels such as websites are 
not close substitutes for the magazines published by Bauer and Pacific 
Magazines.  


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 8 of 16 
37. 
As detailed above, the ACCC understands that the media and entertainment 
landscape has changed considerably, with magazine sales having declined 
significantly over the past 5 to 10 years, while the number of consumers/readers 
accessing content online via websites, social media and digital platforms such as 
Google and Facebook has increased.  
38. 
However, the decline in magazine demand is not necessarily indicative of the 
degree of substitutability between print and online. Many customers still view 
magazines as a highly differentiated product and that online content is nto 
substitutable because of the physical format of magazines, the packaging 
together of stories, puzzles, prizes and other content, and the style of the articles 
produced by magazines. They are willing to pay $3.60 or $4.80 for the relevant 
magazines, when similar information is available for free online. Notably, the 
cover stories for New Idea are available for free on its website online, yet 
significant numbers of customers still purchase the magazine. 
39. 
Issues around the degree of constraint that online and other media channels 
exert on print magazines are discussed below for the categories that are of 
particular interest to the ACCC. 
From an advertiser perspective 
40. 
There are a variety of channels available to advertisers. The choice of 
advertising channel is influenced by a range of factors including cost, the 
product, the demographic of customers that advertisers are seeking to target, 
and whether or not the advertisement is time sensitive.  
41. 
Some advertisers view magazines as an important marketing channel for their 
business. They value the ability to run full-page or multi-page adverts on high 
quality glossy stock to emphasise the appearance and quality of their products, 
the higher engagement level of readers, and the reasonably well known 
demographics of each magazine title.  
42. 
Most advertisers indicated that they have a range of media channels through 
which they can advertise, that magazine advertising is in decline, and that 
magazine advertising does not offer anything unique when compared to other 
media channels. When magazine advertising is used, it is rarely the lead channel 
and is regarded as a non-essential secondary or tertiary channel. 
43. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view therefore is that there is unlikely to be a market for 
advertising in magazines specifically. 
Issue of concern – loss of competition between Woman’s 
Day and New Idea 
44. 
The ACCC considers there is a category of magazines which include a mix of 
entertainment, fashion, beauty, food, and health and fitness content. They 
usually include several stories on Australian celebrities or events. International 
stories are written by Australian journalists for an Australian audience. 
45. 
In this category, Bauer publishes the following titles: 
 
Australian Women’s Weekly;  


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 9 of 16 
 
Woman’s Day; and  
 
It’s Your Day. 
46. 
Pacific Magazines’ publishes the following titles:  
 
New Idea; and  
 
New Idea Royals. 
47. 
The ACCC’s main concern in this category is in relation to the loss of competition 
between New Idea and Woman’s Day, which have the strongest sales, compete 
head-to-head and are very similar in terms of content, cover price history, 
promotional activity, target demographics and distribution channels. The ACCC’s 
view is that New Idea provides a strong competitive constraint on Woman’s Day, 
and vice-versa. 
Competition from other print magazines titles and new entry 
48. 
The ACCC considers that Bauer and Pacific Magazines are the only two 
Australian magazine publishers in this category.  
49. 
Magazines in other categories can overlap with Woman’s Day and New Idea to a 
degree. For example, magazines in each of the celebrity, fashion and health & 
fitness categories all contain some of the same type of content. What 
differentiates Woman’s Day and New Idea from titles in related categories and 
makes them attractive to consumers appears to be the curation of the mix of 
content into one magazine. Despite the overlap in some content, the circulation 
volumes for Woman’s Day and New Idea are many times higher than the 
magazines in the related categories. 
50. 
In addition, the magazine titles in related categories (for example, celebrity and 
royals content in Who, NW and OK or health & fitness content in Good Health or 
Women’s Health) are almost all owned by Bauer and Pacific Magazines. 
51. 
Due to the declining nature of the magazine industry, the ACCC’s preliminary 
view is that it is unlikely that there would be a new entrant into this category.  
52. 
On this basis, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that third party magazine titles are 
unlikely to provide a significant constraint on Bauer post-acquisition. 
Competition from online and social media 
53. 
The ACCC is considering whether online sources of similar information would act 
as a close competitive constraint on Bauer post-acquisition. 
54. 
As mentioned above, the relevant magazines include a range of entertainment, 
fashion, beauty, food and health and fitness content. Information for each of 
these sub-categories can be found readily online, either via specific websites or 
social media sites, or via digital platforms such as Google and Facebook.    
55. 
However, there appears to be only a few websites that offer the same or similar 
combination of content, including Australian content, as the parties’ magazines. 
Websites that offer such content include Mamamia and With Her In Mind 
(whimn.com.au). General news or media websites, such as news.com.au, also 


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 10 of 16 
contain similar content. Overseas websites and content suppliers do not tend to 
cover Australian content, and are not written specifically for Australian audiences 
(eg, referring to overseas television shows or pop culture, using US spelling, 
referring to overseas currency or brands, etc). The ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that most of these sites exert a low degree of constraint on Woman’s Day and 
New Idea, compared to the constraint that those titles impose on each other. 
Weighing up these other constraints 
56. 
The critical issue for the ACCC is the extent to which the existing competitive 
tension between Bauer’s and Pacific Magazines’ titles is an important factor in 
constraining price rises and driving investment in producing content, or whether 
this primarily comes other constraints (such as customers switching to other 
sources for this information/entertainment). 
57. 
In other words, the ACCC is considering the extent to which, post-acquisition, 
Bauer would be constrained from profitably increasing magazine prices (or be 
constrained from reducing the effort put into content production and the range of 
content) due to the threat of losing readership, as doing so could lead to: 
 
a reduction in revenue from sales; 
 
a reduction in advertising rates and revenue; and 
 
the potential loss of shelf space at supermarkets or newsagents.  
58. 
The ACCC understands that advertising revenue makes up a relatively small 
proportion of revenue for the titles, and so is of the preliminary view that further 
loss of advertising revenue is unlikely to act as a very significant constraint on a 
combined Bauer-Pacific Magazines.  
59. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is the competition 
between Bauer’s and Pacific Magazines’ titles is important in maintaining lower 
prices and ensuring investment in compelling content production. The ACCC 
accepts that there are other constraints in the magazines industry, and that if 
prices go too high or investment in content goes too low, many readers will 
reduce or cease buying the magazines. However, our preliminary view is that the 
competition between Bauer’s and Pacific Magazines’ titles acts as a significantly 
stronger competitive constraint than these other constraints.  
60. 
The ACCC therefore considers that the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in relation to the supply of content to 
consumers/readers of Woman’s Day and New Idea. The proposed acquisition is 
likely to: 
 
reduce the frequency or value of gifts or promotions with magazine 
purchases; 
 
reduce the investment made in producing content; and/or 
 
increase magazine cover prices for consumers. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the following: 


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 11 of 16 
 
The extent to which consumers consider online content suppliers and social media 
as a substitute for the parties’ print magazine titles, and the proportion of readers 
for whom online content is not a substitute.  
 
The extent to which consumers consider other alternative magazines or online 
content that only covers some of the topics covered by the relevant magazines as 
substitutes for the parties’ titles. 
 
The importance to consumers of Australian content. 
 
The extent to which readers consider online sources or magazine titles in other 
categories which only contain part of the content in magazines such as Woman’s 
Day or New Idea as substitutes for the parties’ titles.  
 
Would an alternative publisher be interested in purchasing Woman’s Day or New 
Idea? 
Issue of concern – loss of competition between Take 5 and 
That’s Life 
61. 
The ACCC considers there is a “real life” category of magazines which include 
often sensationalist stories featuring everyday people, about love, infidelity, 
crime, illness and overcoming adversity. These magazines also include 
substantial puzzle sections (with prizes), as well as recipe and horoscopes 
sections.   
62. 
In this category, Bauer publishes the following titles: 
 
Take 5; and  
 
Take 5 Monthly.   
63. 
Pacific Magazines publishes the following titles:  
 
That’s Life; and 
 
That’s Life Monthly.  
64. 
The two sets of magazines compete head-to-head, and they are very similar in 
terms of content, cover price history, promotional activity, target demographics 
and distribution channels. The ACCC’s view is that Pacific Magazine’s titles 
provide a strong competitive constraint on Bauer, and vice-versa. 
Competition from other magazine titles 
65. 
The ACCC considers that Bauer and Pacific Magazines are the only two 
Australian magazine publishers in this category. 
66. 
There does not appear to be alternative magazine titles that include similar real 
life content to the parties’ titles.  


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 12 of 16 
67. 
There are numerous magazines that contain just puzzles, including puzzles with 
prizes. However they do not contain any real life stories, and generally do not 
contain any other content such as recipes or horoscopes.  
68. 
On this basis, the ACCC’s view is that alternative magazines are unlikely to 
provide a significant constraint on Bauer’s titles in the real life category. 
Competition from online and social media 
69. 
The ACCC is considering whether online sources of real life content would act as 
a close competitive constraint on Bauer.  
70. 
Real life stories are available on several websites, including: 
 
news.com.au; 
 
The Daily Mail Australia;  
 
Mirror; 
 
The New Daily; 
 
Buzz Feed; and  
 
Mamamia.  
71. 
Real life stories are also available on TV programs, including A Current Affair, 
Today Tonight, Sunrise and Today.  
72. 
These alternate sources have real life stories, with varying degrees of 
sensationalism. They do not have the same package of content as the parties’ 
titles as they generally do not include comparable puzzle, recipe or horoscopes 
sections, and none have prizes with puzzles. However, puzzles, recipes and 
horoscopes are separately available from a wide variety of third-party magazine 
and online sources. 
73. 
In weighing up these other constraints, the ACCC has regard to similar 
considerations as those detailed in the previous section. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the following: 
 
The extent to which readers consider online, social media and television as a 
substitute for Bauer’s print magazine titles, and the proportion of readers for whom 
online suppliers and television are not a substitute.  
 
The importance to consumers of having Australian content in these magazines. 
 
The extent to which readers consider online sources or magazine titles in other 
categories which only contain part of the content in real life magazines as 
substitutes for the parties’ titles (in particular, puzzles magazines).  
 
Would an alternative publisher be interested in purchasing Take 5 or That’s Life? 


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 13 of 16 
Issues that may raise concerns – acquisition of content 
from third party content suppliers 
74. 
Third party content suppliers provide photography and related content on both 
an exclusive and non-exclusive basis to the merger parties.   
75. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition may substantially lessen competition in relation to the 
acquisition of photography and related content from third party content suppliers, 
reducing prices for photography and related content, in particular Australian 
content.  
76. 
The ACCC considers that Bauer and Pacific Magazines are the only two major 
Australian magazine content acquirers and are each other’s closest competitors 
in this market.   
77. 
The critical issue for the ACCC is the extent to which the existing competitive 
tension between Bauer and Pacific Magazines in acquiring third party content is 
the primary factor in maintaining competitive prices, or whether other factors, 
such as the ‘must have’ nature of some content for these magazines, or ability 
for content providers to supply other media platforms, are significant and 
sufficient constraints.  
Competition between Bauer and Pacific Magazines 
78. 
For many photography agencies and other third party content suppliers, 
magazines appear to comprise a material proportion or in some cases the 
majority of their business, particularly for exclusive and/or Australian content.  
79. 
The ACCC understands that Bauer and Pacific Magazines, as the only two major 
Australian magazine content acquirers, routinely compete on price to acquire 
exclusive images and related content, albeit the volume of such content appears 
relatively limited. As such, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that Pacific Magazines 
provides a strong competitive constraint on Bauer when acquiring third party 
content.    
Competition from other magazine publishers 
80. 
There appears to be no alternative magazine publishers who compete for the 
types of photos and content that are acquired for general celebrity and 
entertainment magazines like Woman’s Day, New Idea, Take 5, That’s Life, 
Who, OK! and NW. As such, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that alternative 
magazine publishers are unlikely to provide a significant constraint on Bauer 
when acquiring relevant content.  
Competition from alternative media channels, including online 
81. 
The ACCC is considering whether other media channels, such as online 
publications and newspapers, are close competitors of Bauer for the acquisition 
of relevant content.  
82. 
The ACCC understands that third party content suppliers experience greater 
difficulty in protecting copyright on online media channels compared to physical 
media, while prices paid by online publishers for content can be significantly less 


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 14 of 16 
than magazine publishers. As such, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
alternative media channels are unlikely to act as a significant constraint on 
Bauer.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the following: 
 
The extent to which alternative media channels, such as online publications, can 
provide an alternative platform to magazines in acquiring photography and related 
content 
 
The extent to which Australian content can be supplied to overseas magazines or 
media publishers    
 
The importance of exclusive photography and related content for media publishers. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns – reduction in the number 
of major print magazine publishers for home and garden 
content from three to two 
83. 
Based upon its inquiries to date, on balance, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition in relation 
to the supply of home and garden content to consumers/readers.  
84. 
The parties are close competitors in this area. However, there are also 
numerous alternative magazine titles in the market that are likely to constrain 
Bauer post-acquisition. These include NewsLifeMedia’s Vogue Living, Next 
Media’s Gardening Australia, Universal Media’s Home Design and Bunnings 
magazine. 
85. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Bauer is also likely to be constrained by 
free, online sources of home and garden content. These include websites such 
as Est Living, The Design Files, Houzz Australia, Remodelista, and The Local 
Project. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns – supply of content in the 
celebrity, health & fitness, fashion, puzzles, food and 
parenting categories 
86. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in the supply of content in the following categories for the 
reasons set out below:  


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 15 of 16 
 
Celebrity – Given reader demographics and recent readership trends, 
and the availability of content online, celebrity magazine readers appear 
likely to switch to online sources if Bauer increases cover prices or 
reduces the investment in producing content.  
 
Health & fitness – There is no overlap between Bauer and Pacific 
Magazines in men’s fitness content. For women’s fitness content, Bauer 
and Pacific Magazines are not each other’s closest competitors and 
Bauer will continue to have close competitors for the two women’s fitness 
titles (Women’s Health and Good Health) post-acquisition.   
 
Fashion & lifestyle – Given reader demographics and recent readership 
trends, and the availability of content online, fashion readers appear 
highly likely to switch to online sources if Bauer increases cover prices or 
reduces the investment in producing content. Vogue (published by 
NewsLifeMedia) remains a strong alternative magazine in this category 
and is likely to constrain Bauer.  
 
Puzzles – Lovatts remains a strong competitor in this category. Books, 
newspapers and online apps will also provide some constraint on Bauer. 
Barriers to entry are low due to likely low brand loyalty and low content 
creation costs.  
 
Food – Taste (published by NewsLifeMedia) remains a strong competitor 
in this category. Coles’ and Woolworths’ free magazines also have wide 
distributions. Bauer’s and Pacific Magazines’ titles are not close 
competitors, and numerous online alternatives are also available for 
consumers.     
 
Parenting – Bauer and Pacific Magazines only have nominal and non-
direct overlap in this category.  
Issue unlikely to raise concerns – supply of advertising 
services  
87. 
Some advertisers direct a substantial portion of their total advertising spend on 
magazines, and they view it as an important marketing channel for their 
business. They value the ability to run full-page or multi-page adverts on high 
quality glossy stock to emphasise the appearance and quality of their products, 
the higher engagement level of readers, the reasonably well known 
demographics of each magazine title and cost-effectiveness when compared 
against TV and radio advertising. For them, magazines are especially valuable 
for reaching older demographics and higher income demographics. 
88. 
However, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is 
unlikely to raise competition concerns in the supply of advertising services 
because it appears a large majority of advertisers consider alternative media 
channels to be suitable substitutes for magazines, and are likely to shift their 
advertising spend to alternative channels should Bauer seek to significantly 
increase advertising prices post-acquisition.  


Bauer Media – proposed acquisition of Pacific Magazines 
 
Page 16 of 16 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns – acquisition of other 
services  
89. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
competition concerns in the acquisition of distribution services because Bauer is 
likely to continue to be constrained by its distributor’s bargaining power. 
90. 
Further, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely 
to raise competition concerns in the acquisition of printing services, as the 
parties compete with a range of users of printing services from other industries to 
acquire the relevant printing services.  
ACCC's future steps 
91. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 14 February 2020 and should be 
emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au. 
92. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
93. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 2 April 2020. However 
the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement to explain its final view. 
 
