 
Page 1 of 19 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
24 October 2018 
CK Consortium – proposed acquisition of APA Group  
 
The ACCC’s decision 
1. 
On 12 September 2018, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the 
proposed acquisition by the CK Consortium of APA Group (APA) (the 
proposed acquisition), subject to an undertaking offered under section 87B of 
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) (the Act). 
2. 
The ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition, in conjunction with the 
undertaking, would not contravene section 50 of the Act.  
3. 
Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely to have 
the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
4. 
The ACCC’s investigation focussed on:  
 
aggregation of gas transmission and storage services in Western 
Australia; 
 
aggregation of gas transmission assets in eastern Australia and the 
Northern Territory; 
 
impacts on competition for new gas pipeline developments; 
 
vertical integration of gas transmission and distribution services; and 
 
aggregation of electricity and gas assets. 
5. 
The ACCC considered that, without the undertaking, the proposed acquisition 
would give rise to competition concerns. The ACCC was concerned about the 
removal of the CK Consortium as a competitor to APA in relation to new 
pipeline development, with the strongest concerns relating to new pipeline 
development arising in Western Australia and Northern Territory. The ACCC 
was also concerned about a lessening of competition for gas transmission and 
storage services in Western Australia given that, without the undertaking, the 
CK Consortium would own most gas transmission and storage facilities in 
Western Australia.  


 
Page 2 of 19 
6. 
The undertaking requires the CK Consortium to divest: 
 
the Parmelia Gas Pipeline; 
 
the Mondarra Gas Storage Facility; 
 
APA’s 88.2 per cent interest in the Goldfields Gas Pipeline; and 
 
the Kalgoorlie to Kambalda Pipeline. 
7. 
The ACCC considered that the divestments resolved the competition concerns.  
8. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
ACCC not to oppose the proposed acquisition subject to the court-enforceable 
divestment undertaking. 
9. 
Please note that this and other public competition assessments are subject to 
the following qualifications: 
 
The ACCC considers each transaction on a case-by-case basis and so 
the analysis and decision outlined in one assessment will not necessarily 
reflect the ACCC’s view of another transaction, even where that other 
transaction may involve the same or a related market. 
 
As assessments are brief and do not refer to confidential information 
provided by the parties or other market participants, assessments do not 
set out all of the issues and information considered by the ACCC, nor all 
of the analysis and reasons of the ACCC.  
10. Please also note that the proposed acquisition is subject to approval by the 
Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB), which will assess the transaction on 
national interest grounds.  
The parties and the transaction 
The acquirer: CK Consortium 
11. The CK Consortium comprises three members, each of whom is a substantial 
entity listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange:  
 
CK Infrastructure Holdings Ltd (CKI), a public infrastructure company 
with diversified investments in energy infrastructure, transportation 
infrastructure, water infrastructure, waste management, waste-to-
energy, and infrastructure related businesses. CKI is one of the largest 
overseas infrastructure investors in Australia.1  
 
CK Asset Holdings Limited (CKA), a company with diverse capabilities 
with activities encompassing property development and investment, 
hotel and serviced suite operation, property and project management, 
                                                 
1 http://www.cki.com.hk/.  


 
Page 3 of 19 
joint ventures in infrastructure and utility asset operation, and aircraft 
leasing2; and 
 
Power Assets Holdings Limited (PAH), a global investor in energy and 
utility-related businesses, with interests in the generation of thermal and 
renewable power, the transmission of electricity gas and oil, and the 
distribution of electricity and gas.3 
12. The CK Consortium’s Australian energy assets include: 
 
three gas transmission pipelines in Western Australia, including the 
Dampier to Bunbury Natural Gas Pipeline which is one of Australia’s 
largest transmission pipelines that runs from the Burrup Peninsula in 
the north-west to Bunbury in the south-west of the state; 
 
Australian Gas Networks (AGN), which owns gas distribution networks 
in Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne, Rockhampton, Albury, Alice Springs, 
Bundaberg and Whyalla. AGN also owns six small  transmission assets 
in Victoria, South Australia, New South Wales, Queensland and the 
Northern Territory;  
 
Multinet Gas, which owns gas distribution pipelines in Victoria; 
 
an interest in regulated electricity distribution networks across South 
Australia and three of the five regulated electricity distribution networks 
in Victoria4;  
 
small capacity electricity generation assets, including wind farms,  
landfill gas sites and coal mine gas sites across Australia. 
13. Maps showing the CK Consortium’s gas infrastructure assets in the east and 
west coast of Australia are set out in Attachment A. A list of the Consortium’s 
energy infrastructure assets in Australia is set out in Attachment B. 
The target: APA Group 
14. APA is a major owner and operator of natural gas transportation and energy 
infrastructure assets across Australia. Its assets and services include:  
 
a network of interconnected large capacity gas transmission pipelines in 
eastern Australia; 
 
gas transmission pipelines in the Northern Territory, including the 
Amadeus Ga Pipeline; 
 
major gas transmission pipelines in Western Australia, including the 
Goldfields Gas Pipelines, the Parmelia Gas Pipeline and the Pilbara 
Pipeline System; 
                                                 
2 http://www.ckah.com/.  
3 https://www.powerassets.com/.  
4 Powercor Australia (51 per cent interest), United Energy (66 per cent), CitiPower (51 per 
cent), SA Power Networks (51 per cent).  


 
Page 4 of 19 
 
the Mondarra gas storage facility in Western Australia and the 
Dandenong LNG gas storage facility in Victoria; 
 
small capacity renewable energy generation facilities connected to the 
National Electricity Market (NEM) and the Wholesale Electricity Market 
(WEM), as well as other purpose-built energy generation facilities not 
connected to the NEM and WEM;  
 
19.9% in electricity transmission interconnectors Murraylink (Victoria-
South Australia interconnector) and Directlink (New South Wales- 
Queensland interconnector); 
 
asset management services for the majority of APA’s energy 
investments and for third parties, including the CK Consortium; and 
 
energy investments in unlisted entities. 
15. Maps showing APA’s gas infrastructure assets in the east and west coast of 
Australia (including assets operated by APA) are set out in Attachment A. A 
list of APA’s energy infrastructure assets in Australia is set out in Attachment 
C. 
The transaction 
16. On 13 August 2018, APA Group announced that it had entered into an 
Implementation Agreement with the CK Consortium and CKM Australia Bidco 
Pty Ltd (Bidco), under which Bidco will acquire all of the stapled securities in 
APA.  The Proposal will be effected under inter-conditional trust schemes.  The 
current proposed ultimate ownership structure of APA will be CKA owning 60 
per cent, and each of CKI and PAH will have a 20% interest in the CK 
Consortium.5  
17. At the commencement of the ACCC’s process, the CK Consortium offered to 
divest the following APA assets in Western Australia to address competition 
concerns likely to be raised by the ACCC: 
 
the Parmelia Gas Pipeline; 
 
the Mondarra Gas Storage Facility; 
 
APA’s 88.2% interest in the Goldfields Gas Pipeline; and 
 
the Kalgoorlie to Kambalda Pipeline. 
                                                 
5 Subject to CKA, CKI and PAH shareholders’ approval. 
CKA circular: 
http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2018/1009/LTN20181009533.pdf 
CKI circular: 
http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2018/1009/LTN20181009452.pdf 
PAH circular: 
http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2018/1009/LTN20181009527.pdf 
Acquisition announcement, Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, 
http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2018/0813/LTN20180813007.pdf   


 
Page 5 of 19 
Review timeline 
18. The following table outlines the timeline of key events for the ACCC in this 
matter.  
Date 
Event 
26 June 2018 
 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process Guidelines. 
 
13 July 2018 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
4 
September 
2018 
Former proposed decision date of 13 September 2018 brought 
forward a day to 12 September 2018.  
12 September 
2018 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the proposed acquisition, 
subject to a section 87B undertaking accepted by the ACCC.  
19. The total elapsed time from start to finish was just under three months.     
Market inquiries 
20. The ACCC conducted market inquiries with a range of industry participants, 
including competitors, gas producers, customers, other pipeline operators, 
engineering firms, industry bodies, and other government agencies. 
Submissions were sought in relation to the substantive competition issues and 
proposed undertakings. 
Industry background 
The gas supply chain 
21. Gas producers sell wholesale gas domestically to electricity generators, to 
other large gas users and to energy retailers, who then on-sell the gas to 
business and household customers. The gas produced for domestic 
consumption is transported (‘shipped’) through high pressure transmission 
pipelines from the production facility to the entry point of the distribution 
network (‘city gate’) or to large users (for example, large commercial and 
industrial users) connected to the transmission pipeline. 
22. Gas distribution pipelines transport natural gas from transmission pipelines to 
end users. These typically consist of a backbone of high and medium pressure 
pipelines running between the city gate and major demand centres. This 
pipeline system feeds low pressure pipelines which deliver the gas to 
businesses and homes. Energy retailers act as intermediaries by buying gas 
from producers and packaging it with pipeline services for sale to residential, 
commercial and small business customers.  
23. Gas storage facilities help manage variations in gas production. In particular, 
they can be used to store surplus production that can be drawn upon later to 
augment supply in times of peak demand.  
Regulation of gas transmission and distribution 
24. All gas transmission pipelines and networks are subject to at least some form 
of regulation. There are two frameworks under the National Gas Rules (NGR): 
(i) ‘covered’ pipelines; and (ii) pipelines subject to Part 23 of the NGR. 


 
Page 6 of 19 
Covered pipelines 
25. The National Competition Council (NCC) is responsible for assessing whether 
a pipeline should be regulated and the level of regulation that is appropriate. 
There are two types of regulation available: full regulation or light regulation. 
26. Where a pipeline is regulated either through full or light regulation, it is referred 
to as a ‘covered’ pipeline. Once a pipeline is ‘covered’, the Australian Energy 
Regulator (AER) is responsible for regulating pipeline services on that pipeline 
and ensuring compliance with the NGR (except in Western Australia, where the 
Economic Regulation Authority (ERA) has this responsibility). 
Full regulation 
27. Where a pipeline is fully regulated, the pipeline operator must prepare an 
access arrangement for the AER or ERA to approve. The access arrangement 
includes price and non-price terms and conditions for third parties to gain 
access to the pipeline, and provides a starting point for parties to negotiate 
access on commercial terms. 
Light regulation 
28. Light regulation involves a more limited access arrangement whereby the 
pipeline operator either determines its own tariffs or publishes information (as 
specified by the NGR) on its website. The information is made available to 
assist potential users to negotiate a contract to use a pipeline service. 
29. In the event of a dispute between the pipeline operator and a user (or potential 
user), the NGR contain a dispute resolution (arbitration) mechanism. This 
mechanism is available in relation to all services on fully and lightly regulated 
pipelines. 
Part 23 of the NGR 
30. Over the last few years, following findings and recommendations arising from 
the ACCC Gas Inquiry Report 2016, the level of oversight of and information 
reporting by gas pipelines/networks has increased. 
31. Since 1 August 2017, pipelines that are not covered have been subject to the 
requirements set out in a new Part 23 of the NGR. Under Part 23, pipeline 
operators are required to publish certain financial and non-financial information 
related to the available pipeline services. Part 23 also includes an arbitration 
framework for users of these pipelines to resolve disputes with pipeline 
operators. Some pipelines are able to apply for exemptions from Part 23. 
Competition analysis 
32. The ACCC’s investigation focussed on: 
 
aggregation of gas transmission and storage services in Western 
Australia; 
 
aggregation of gas transmission assets in eastern Australia and the 
Northern Territory; 


 
Page 7 of 19 
 
impacts on competition for new gas pipeline developments 
 
vertical integration of gas transmission and distribution services, and  
 
aggregation of electricity and gas assets. 
33. These issues are explored in the sections below.  
Gas transmission and storage services in Western Australia 
Gas transmission services to Perth 
34. The CK Consortium owns the Dampier to Bunbury Natural Gas Pipeline 
(DBNGP) which links the gas fields in the Carnavon Basin (off the Pilbara coast 
of Western Australia) with population centres and industry in the south-west of 
the state, including Perth. APA owns the shorter and lower capacity Parmelia 
Gas Pipeline which runs virtually parallel to the DBNGP, from the Perth Basin 
gas fields to just south of Perth. 
35. The ACCC considered that the consolidation of ownership between the 
DBNGP and the Parmelia Gas Pipeline would be likely to substantially lessen 
competition for the supply of gas transmission services into Perth. However, 
taking into account the remedy offered to the ACCC by the CK Consortium at 
the outset of the review to divest the Parmelia Gas Pipeline, the ACCC was 
satisfied that this remedy adequately addressed these concerns.  
Pipelines servicing the Pilbara 
36. Market participants indicated that the Goldfields Gas Pipeline, owned by APA, 
competes with the Fortescue River Pipeline (owned by CKI in a joint venture 
with TransAlta) insofar as services are (or could be) provided to end users in 
the Pilbara.  
37. The ACCC notes that end users are likely to be major mining companies or 
other industrial users which may have the ability to develop new pipelines 
themselves or underwrite others doing so. Despite the possible countervailing 
power of these large customers (discussed further below), the ACCC 
considered that the proposed transaction may substantially lessen competition 
for the supply of gas transmission services to the Pilbara. However, taking into 
account the remedy proposed by the CK Consortium to divest the Goldfields 
Gas Pipeline, the ACCC was satisfied that the concern would be addressed. 
Consolidation in ownership of gas storage facilities 
38. The proposed acquisition would result in common ownership of the only two 
gas storage facilities in Western Australia: 
 
the Mondarra Gas Storage Facility, an underground gas storage facility 
owned by APA (attached to the northern part of the Parmelia Gas 
Pipeline and connected to the DBNGP); and 
 
the newer Tubridgi Gas Storage Facility, another underground gas 
storage facility owned by the CK Consortium. Tubridgi is located at the 
northern end of the DBNGP.  


 
Page 8 of 19 
39. Market participants indicated that the two storage facilities compete with one 
another notwithstanding the distance between them. The ACCC considered 
that the proposed acquisition would likely substantially lessen competition for 
the supply of gas storage services in Western Australia. However, taking into 
account the remedy proposed by the CK Consortium to divest the Mondarra 
Gas Storage Facility, the ACCC was satisfied that this concern would be 
addressed. 
 
Aggregation of gas assets in eastern Australia and the Northern 
Territory 
Gas transmission pipelines 
40. In Eastern Australia and the Northern Territory, the CK Consortium owns five 
small transmission pipelines: 
 
The Riverland-Mildura Pipeline System transports gas from the 
Moomba to Adelaide Pipeline System (MAPS) to Berri and then 
Mildura. A lateral pipeline transports gas to Murray Bridge. The SEA 
Gas Pipeline, which is 50% owned by APA but independently operated, 
passes within 4km of Murray Bridge, but the two pipelines are not 
connected. The Riverland-Mildura Pipeline System is very different to 
the SEA Gas Pipeline. The latter is a large capacity pipeline, with 314 
TJ/d capacity, compared to 5.6TJ/d capacity on the Riverland-Mildura 
Pipeline. 
 
The Wide Bay Pipeline is connected to the Queensland Gas Pipeline 
(owned by Jemena) at Gladstone and extends from Maryborough to 
Rockhampton via Bundeberg and Gladstone. The Wide Bay Pipeline is 
a small transmission pipeline, with a capacity of 3 TJ/d. The Wide Bay 
Pipeline also crosses, but is not connected to, the Wallumbilla to 
Gladstone Pipeline, owned by APA. The latter pipeline is a large 
capacity pipeline (500 times greater than the Wide Bay Pipeline) 
designed to supply gas to the LNG export terminals at Curtis Island. 
 
The South Gippsland Natural Gas Pipeline transports gas from the 
Bass Gas Plant and the Victorian Transmission System to supply five 
South Gippsland towns. It forms part of the Multinet Gas distribution 
network. 
 
The Palm Valley to Alice Springs Pipeline (PVASP) connects to the 
southern end of APA’s Amadeus Gas Pipeline.  PVASP and the 
Amadeus Gas Pipelines supply gas to different destinations but source 
gas from the same field. The pipelines differ significantly in their 
capacity: the PVASP has a capacity of 27 TJ/d compared to 122 TJ/d 
for the Amadeus Gas Pipeline. 
 
The Tanami Gas Pipeline is being constructed by the CK Consortium to 
connect mines operated by Newmont to APA’s Amadeus Gas Pipeline.  
41. By contrast, APA owns and operates a very large number of interconnected 
transmission pipelines in eastern Australia. APA also owns and operates 
related infrastructure, such as storage and compression assets.  


 
Page 9 of 19 
42. The CK Consortium’s pipelines in eastern Australia supply small regional 
centres or specific customers. As the CK Consortium’s pipelines are small and 
largely peripheral, the ACCC considered that they would only have a minimal 
impact on APA’s network size and interconnectivity. The ACCC found that 
there is no competition between the CK Consortium’s existing pipelines in 
eastern Australia and Northern Territory and those of APA. 
Horizontal Aggregation of gas distribution assets  
43. In Brisbane, the CK Consortium (through AGN) owns the gas distribution 
network supplying the northern suburbs of Brisbane. APA has a 20% interest in 
the Allgas gas distribution network, which borders the AGN network and 
supplies the southern suburbs of Brisbane.  
44. The ACCC considered the horizontal aggregation of gas distribution networks 
in Brisbane. The ACCC found that competition is theoretically possible on the 
border between the two networks, but unlikely to be significant as the networks 
are largely separated by the Brisbane River and there appeared to be no 
industry interest in competing for such a small number of customers.  
45. The ACCC therefore concluded that the aggregation of the Brisbane 
distribution networks is unlikely to raise competition concerns.  
46. Aside from Brisbane, APA has limited gas distribution assets, which the ACCC 
considers do no compete with the CK Consortium’s interests in gas distribution.  
Competition to develop and operate new pipelines 
47. The ACCC was concerned that the proposed acquisition, by eliminating 
competitive rivalry between APA and the CK Consortium, would have the effect 
of lessening competition in the development and operation of new pipelines. 
Closeness of competition between the CK Consortium and APA 
48. Analysis of data from the parties and information from market inquiries 
indicated that on the East Coast, APA’s closest competition for the 
development of new pipelines has typically come from gas pipeline companies 
other than the CK Consortium members.  
49. The ACCC noted that the CK Consortium has had limited success in winning 
tenders for the development of new pipelines in the east coast gas market.  
50. In Western Australia, the CK Consortium has been involved in developing 
laterals connecting to its main pipeline, the DBNGP. It is also currently 
developing the Tanami Pipeline, which is a lateral connecting a mine to the 
APA-owned Amadeus Gas Pipeline in the Northern Territory. The development 
of this pipeline is being progressed via the CK Consortium member’s Perth-
based staff, and will be maintained with fly-in and fly-out staff from Perth.  Each 
of the new pipelines developed by the CK Consortium to date have been 
supported by an investment-grade foundation customer entering into a long 
term contract with it.  
51. The CK Consortium and APA appear to be relatively strong competitors for the 
construction of laterals to mines in Western Australia and the Northern 


 
Page 10 of 19 
Territory, primarily because they are the two main owners of pipelines in the 
west (and the Northern Territory pipelines can be efficiently developed and 
operated from Western Australia).  
Alternative options to the combined entity  
52. Market feedback indicated that there are alternative options to the combined 
entity for the development of new pipelines. 
 
Jemena: Jemena is currently developing the Northern Gas Pipeline and 
has stated that it is seeking to build an interconnected supply chain of 
energy delivery assets in northern Australia through targeted 
acquisitions and greenfield developments.6 
 
International pipeline operators and developers: large pipeline 
development projects have been able to attract participation by 
international pipeline operators and developers, although none has won 
a tender in recent years. While some market participants have indicated 
that experience and a track record in Australia (in particular, in dealing 
with issues such as native title) are important in winning a bid, others 
considered that a lack of such experience in Australia can be overcome 
by engaging consultants or consortium partners who possess the 
relevant experience and expertise. 
 
Superannuation and investment funds: a number of pipelines are 
owned by superannuation or investment funds. There have also been a 
number of superannuation and investment firms which have 
participated directly in tenders for pipelines, generally partnering with 
pipeline construction companies.  
53. Many market participants indicated that APA has a strong incumbency 
advantage in relation to the development of new pipelines, due to its existing 
pipeline network. Any developer of future large scale pipelines is likely to have 
to connect with an APA pipeline, which may increase the former’s costs, risks 
and uncertainty as compared to APA. This issue would likely apply equally to 
an international player as to a local player attempting to expand. However, the 
ACCC considered that the proposed acquisition would not change this. 
54. The ACCC also noted that there are a number of pipelines that are owned by 
gas producers which have been self-developed.   
55. The ability to self-develop pipelines provides proponents with a degree of 
countervailing power. If bidders do not provide a competitive price, a project 
sponsor can have the option to construct the pipeline itself. However, this 
option is only likely to be available to businesses with the capital, or option of 
accessing capital, to finance the project themselves. This model would appear 
suited to large C&I businesses requiring a lateral pipeline or large gas 
producers with large volumes of gas to be transported to connection points in 
the existing transmission network. 
56. While these alternative options provide some potential constraint, the ACCC 
remained concerned that the proposed acquisition would be likely to have the 
                                                 
6 https://jemena.com.au/pipelines/darling-downs-pipeline  


 
Page 11 of 19 
effect of lessening competition in the development and operation of new 
pipelines, in particular in Western Australia and Northern Territory.  
57. The ACCC considered that the divestment undertaking offered by the CK 
Consortium addresses this concern. The pipeline assets that the CK 
Consortium propose to divest post-merger will create a Western Australia-
based entity of similar scale to the CK Consortium’s current Western Australian 
operations, together with the personnel needed to operate those assets and a 
management team experienced in managing and developing gas transmission 
pipelines.  The purchaser of the divestment assets will need to be approved by 
the ACCC. This approval process will take into account the proposed 
purchaser’s ability to be an effective and long-term competitor for the 
development of new pipelines.  
Vertical integration of gas transmission and distribution 
58. As APA is a significant gas transmission company and the CK Consortium has 
significant gas distribution assets, the proposed acquisition will result in vertical 
integration of gas transmission and distribution assets in Brisbane, Melbourne 
and Adelaide. While concerns were expressed by some industry participants 
about this vertical integration, the ACCC decided that the vertical integration 
did not give rise to competition issues under s 50 of the Act.  
59. Some market participants expressed concerns that the combined entity would 
have the ability and incentive to make investment decisions in relation to 
distribution or transmission assets in a way that favours its other assets, 
particularly gas transmission assets, to the detriment of competitors and 
ultimately customers. 
60. The ACCC concluded that competition concerns are unlikely. Customers of 
distribution networks are mostly retailers which provide gas to end users 
spread geographically across the distribution network. It would not seem 
possible to target investment projects to specific customers. Furthermore, the 
AER’s regulation of distribution networks makes it unlikely that the combined 
entity would have the ability to make investment decisions in a way that favours 
its other assets in Adelaide, Melbourne or Brisbane.  
61. Some market participants suggested that the combined entity, which would 
control transmission, hub and distribution services, would have detailed 
information about the consumption patterns of the commercial and industrial 
(C&I) customers, which may affect the ability of these customers to negotiate 
with the combined entity.  
62. The ACCC noted that the combined entity could gain a better understanding of 
these customers’ requirements, for example regarding gas demand profile and 
flexibility of demand. However, the ACCC considered that the information 
available to a combined transmission and distribution company would not 
materially alter the bargaining position of C&I customers, as a customer can 
provide its own information to any rival transmission or storage providers.  
63. The ACCC also noted that APA is already operating the distribution networks of 
the CK Consortium’s Australian Gas Networks in Adelaide, Melbourne and 
Brisbane under a long term contract. Therefore, APA would already have 


 
Page 12 of 19 
extensive information on individual C&I users that obtain gas transport via 
retailers.  
64. Concerns were also raised that the combined entity will be able to bundle gas 
transmission and distribution services supplying a particular capital city, 
offering lower distribution charges to customers if they use the combined 
entity’s transmission pipelines (or higher prices if they do not).  
65. The ACCC noted that the regulatory framework for covered pipelines prevents 
transmission pipeline operators from restricting or otherwise hindering access 
to distribution networks. The regulatory framework would also prevent 
operators of lightly regulated transmission pipelines from engaging in price 
discrimination. The NGR allow the distribution network to group customers into 
‘tariff classes’ only if it is economically efficient to do so. This would likely 
restrict the ability of the combined entity to offer discounts to customers based 
on their purchase of its own transmission services.  
Aggregation of electricity and gas assets 
66. The ACCC considered whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of electricity due to aggregation 
of electricity generation and gas transmission/distribution assets. Specifically, 
the ACCC considered whether the merged firm could use control of its gas 
transmission and distribution assets to increase the input costs of competing 
gas-fired electricity generators. By raising the costs of rival electricity 
generators, this could provide the electricity generation assets owned by the 
merged firm with a competitive advantage.  
67. Information obtained from the parties indicated that the combined entity would 
have a very low percentage of electricity generation capacity in each relevant 
state and the broader NEM and WEM. The presence of much larger generators 
in each of these areas means that the combined entity will face significant 
constraints and is unlikely to be able to influence electricity prices in any state, 
the WEM or the NEM. The small size of the generation assets in the NEM and 
the WEM owned by the merged firm means that it is unlikely it would have an 
incentive to use control of gas transmission or distribution assets to 
competitively disadvantage rival existing or potential gas-fired generators. 
Furthermore, the ability to engage in such behaviour would be restricted by 
regulation for many of the gas distribution/transmission assets.  Accordingly, 
the ACCC considered that aggregation of the electricity and gas assets would 
be unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of electricity. 
68. The CK Consortium also has interests in several remote generation assets, not 
connected to the broader NEM or WEM. As these are stand-alone assets, 
generally under long-term contracts that do not compete with other generators, 
the ACCC did not consider there was a risk of foreclosure or rivals.  
69. The CK Consortium and APA also have interests in electricity 
transmission/distribution assets. While none of these electricity 
transmission/distribution assets compete, market participants did raise 
concerns relating to the possible convergence of gas and electricity supply at 
the retail or wholesale level, and the possibility of substitution between the 
energy sources for some customers.   


 
Page 13 of 19 
70. The ACCC considered that the combined entity would have little incentive to 
attempt, through investment or operational decisions, to direct more energy 
through one type of infrastructure over another in a way that would harm 
competition, as the benefits of such a strategy would be unlikely to compensate 
for the loss. The ACCC considered that any competition between the electricity 
distribution/transmission assets and the gas assets was limited.  
Undertaking 
71. The CK Consortium has undertaken to divest the Parmelia Gas Pipeline, the 
Goldfields Gas Pipeline, the Kalgoorlie to Kambalda Pipeline and the Mondarra 
gas storage facility to an ACCC-approved purchaser. The undertaking is a 
court-enforcement undertaking under s87B of the Act, and is available on the 
ACCC’s website https://www.accc.gov.au/public-registers/undertakings-
registers/ckm-australia-bidco-pty-ltd-ck-asset-holdings-limited-ck-infrastructure-
holdings-limited-and-power-assets-holdings-limited.  
72. In addition to addressing the ACCC’s concerns in relation to competition for the 
supply of gas transmission and storage services in Western Australia, the 
objectives of the undertaking include to: 
 
create or strengthen a viable, effective, stand-alone, independent and 
long term competitor in the development of new gas transmission 
pipelines, and ensure that the purchaser has the necessary assets and 
rights to  do so, and 
 
create or strengthen a viable, effective, stand-alone, independent and 
long term competitor in the supply of gas pipeline transmission and 
storage services in Western Australia and ensure that the purchaser has 
all the necessary assets and rights to do so. 
73. The assets will be sold with a management team capable of operating the 
assets and developing new pipelines.  
74. The ACCC considered that the divestment would create a pipeline business 
similar in size to the CK Consortium’s current Western Australian operations.  
Conclusion 
75. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the proposed 
acquisition of APA Group by the CK Consortium, in conjunction with the 
undertaking, would not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in any market. 


 
Page 14 of 19 
Attachment A 
Map 1: Parties’ gas assets in Western Australia7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
7 Map 1 does not show the Beharra Springs Pipeline (35-40 TJ/d). 


 
Page 15 of 19 
Map 2: Parties’ gas assets in eastern Australia and the Northern Territory8  
 
                                                 
8 Map 2 does not show all third party pipelines. In particular, the following third party pipelines 
are not shown: Comet Ridge to Wallumbilla, Spring Gully Pipeline, Kincora to Wallumbilla, 


 
Page 16 of 19 
Attachment B 
 
CK Consortium’s energy infrastructure assets in Australia 
 
Western Australia 
 
Dampier to Bunbury Natural Gas Pipeline (DBNGP) 
 
Fortescue River Pipeline (owned and operated through a joint venture 
comprising a subsidiary of AGIG and a subsidiary of TransAlta (which is 
unrelated to the merger parties) on a 57% to 43% basis) 
 
Wheatstone Ashburton West Pipeline 
 
Ashburton Onslow Gas Pipeline 
 
Tubridgi Gas Storage Facility 
 
Various landfill gas sites connected to the Wholesale Electricity Market  
Eastern Australia 
 
South Gippsland Natural Gas Pipeline (VIC) 
 
Wide Bay Pipeline (QLD) (operated by APA under a long term management 
agreement) 
 
Riverland-Mildura Pipeline System (SA-VIC) (operated by APA under a long 
term management agreement) 
 
Australian Gas Networks (previously Envestra) Distribution Network (VIC, SA 
and QLD) (operated by APA under a long term management agreement) 
 
Multinet Gas  
 
Albury Gas Distribution Network (NSW/VIC) (operated by APA under a long 
term management agreement) 
 
Wagga Wagga Gas Distribution Network (operated by APA under a long term 
management agreement) 
 
East Gippsland Distribution Network (VIC) (operated by APA under a long 
term management agreement) 
 
Wonthaggi Wind Farm 
 
Various landfill gas sites in Victoria 
 
SA Power Networks 
 
Powercor Australia Ltd 
                                                                                                                                            
APLNG Pipeline, Peabody Mitsui Gas pipeline and GLNG pipeline.  


 
Page 17 of 19 
 
Transmission General Holdings  
 
United Energy (66% interest) 
 
Energy Developments 
Northern Territory  
 
Palm Valley to Alice Springs Pipeline (operated by APA under a long term 
management agreement) 
 
Alice Springs Distribution Network (operated by APA under a long term 
management agreement) 
 
Tanami Pipeline (under construction)  


 
Page 18 of 19 
Attachment C 
 
APA’s energy infrastructure assets in Australia9 
 
Western Australia 
 
Goldfields Gas Pipeline (88.2% ownership of the mainline and Newman 
lateral (Alinta Energy CGT Pty Ltd owns the remaining 11.8%) and 100% 
ownership of 106 kilometres of all other laterals) 
 
Eastern Goldfields Pipeline 
 
Kalgoorlie to Kambalda Pipeline 
 
Pilbara Pipeline System 
 
Telfer Gas Pipeline (owned and operated by Energy Infrastructure 
Investment, an APA-established investment vehicle in which APA holds a 
19.9% interest) 
 
Parmelia Gas Pipeline 
 
Mid-West Pipeline (APA operates and holds a 50% interest; Horizon Power 
holds the remaining 50% interest) 
 
Mondarra Gas Storage Facility 
 
Emu Downs Wind Farm 
 
Emu Downs Solar Farm 
 
Badgingarra Wind Farm 
 
Natural Gas Vehicle refuelling facilities; and 
 
Yamarna Gas Pipeline and Yamarna Power Station (under construction) 
 
Eastern Australia 
 
South West Queensland Pipeline (SA-QLD) 
 
Wallumbilla Gladstone Pipeline (QLD) 
 
Carpentaria Gas Pipeline, and Diamantina and Leichardt Power Stations 
(QLD) 
 
Roma Brisbane Pipeline (QLD) 
 
Berwyndale Wallumbilla Pipeline (QLD) 
 
Moomba to Sydney Pipeline (SA-NSW) 
                                                 
9 Assets operated by APA on behalf of the Consortium are noted in the list of the 
Consortium’s assets.  


 
Page 19 of 19 
 
Moomba to Sydney Ethane Pipeline (SA-NSW) 
 
Central West Pipeline (NSW) 
 
Reedy Creek Wallumbilla Pipeline (to be built) 
 
SEA Gas Pipeline (APA operates and holds a 50% interest; Retail Employees 
Superannuation Trust holds the remaining 50%) (VIC-SA) 
 
Mortlake Gas Pipeline (50% interest through SEA Gas (Mortlake) 
Partnership) 
 
South East South Australia Pipeline (SA) 
 
Allgas Distribution Network (QLD-NSW) (APA operates and holds a 20% 
interest; Allgas Energy holds the remaining 80% ) 
 
Tamworth Gas Distribution Network (NSW) 
 
Victorian Gas Transmission System and the associated Dandenong LNG 
Storage Facility (VIC) 
 
Orbost Gas Processing Plant (VIC) 
 
Darling Downs Solar Farm (QLD) 
 
Various power stations in Queensland and South Australia 
 
APA also owns and manages metering services in Victoria 
 
GDI (EII) (20% interest)  
 
South East Australia Gas Pty Ltd (50% interest) 
 
Energy Infrastructure Investments (19.9% interest) 
 
EII2 (20.2% interest) 
 
Murraylink (19.9% interest) 
 
Directlink (19.9% interest)  
Northern Territory 
 
Amadeus Gas Pipeline and 100% ownership of two laterals 
 
Darwin City Gate to Berrimah Pipeline 
 
Bonaparte Gas Pipeline (operated by APA; owned by Energy Infrastructure 
Investments in which APA has a 19.9% interest) 
 
Wickham Point Pipeline (operated by APA; owned by Energy Infrastructure 
Investments in which APA has a 19.9% interest) 
 
Darwin Distribution Network 
