 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 September 2007 
 
Statement of Issues - Woolworths Limited - proposed 
acquisition of Officeworks and either Kmart or Target 
1. 
Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) in relation to the proposed 
acquisition of Officeworks BusinessDirect Pty Ltd and Officeworks Superstores 
Pty Ltd (Officeworks) and either Kmart Australia Ltd (Kmart) or Target 
Australia Pty Ltd (Target) by Woolworths Limited (proposed acquisition).  
2. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. 
In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available on the 
ACCC’s website at www.accc.gov.au) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates 
completing further market inquiries by 19 September 2007 and anticipates 
making a final decision on 3 October 2007. However, the anticipated timeline 
can change in line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast 
of possible changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market 
participants should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. 
On 15 June 2007, the ACCC commenced its review under the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. The ACCC’s review in this case is unusual as the proposed 
acquisition consists of one of two possible transactions, that is, the acquisition 
of Officeworks and either Kmart or Target. 
1 


 
 
6. 
The ACCC will separately assess both proposed acquisitions (Officeworks and 
Kmart or Officeworks and Target), to determine whether either would be likely 
to lead to a substantial lessening of competition. 
7. 
On 30 June 2007, Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) lodged a bid to acquire 
Officeworks and either Kmart or Target from Coles Group Limited (Coles).  
8. 
However, on 2 July 2007, the Coles board announced it would put a 
recommended offer to Coles shareholders for Wesfarmers to acquire 100% of 
Coles under a scheme of arrangement. Coles shareholders are to vote on the 
scheme on 25 October 2007. The ACCC announced on 22 August 2007 that it 
will not oppose Wesfarmers’ proposal. 
9. 
Despite the Coles board’s recommendation of the Wesfarmers offer, 
Woolworths has publicly stated that it continues to be interested in acquiring 
certain Coles assets. As the Wesfarmers offer has not yet been put to Coles 
shareholders, the ACCC intends to continue its assessment of Woolworths’ 
proposal.  
The parties 
Woolworths Limited 
10. 
Woolworths is an ASX listed retailing company.  Its businesses most relevant to 
this transaction include:    
• 
Big W – a chain of 141 discount department stores operating across 
Australia. Big W retails general merchandise, including clothing, 
footwear and accessories; homewares; toys and other leisure products; 
gardening, hardware and tools; everyday needs products including 
toiletries and cosmetics; home appliances and entertainment products; and 
stationery and office products. Most of the product categories where 
Big W is active overlap with Kmart and Target’s product categories. 
Big W and Officeworks’ product categories also overlap in the retail of 
office products. 
• 
Dick Smith Electronics, Dick Smith Electronics Powerhouse and Tandy   
– retailers of household and small office computers, electronic and 
electrical components and kits, household and small office 
communications products, and entertainment products. Woolworths 
operates 190 Dick Smith Electronics stores, 19 Powerhouse stores and 
119 Tandy stores across Australia. Some of the product categories where 
Dick Smith and Tandy are active, such as office computers, technology 
and communication products, overlap with Officeworks, Kmart and 
Target’s product categories.  
11. 
Woolworths also owns a chain of supermarkets, liquor stores and service 
stations.  
Coles Group Limited - Officeworks, Kmart and Target  
12. 
Coles is an ASX listed retailing company. The Coles assets of most relevance to 
the ACCC’s assessment are: 
2 


 
 
• 
Officeworks - retailer of office and technology products for offices, 
students and businesses.  Officeworks has approximately 100 outlets, and 
an online operation. 
• 
Kmart - one of Australia’s largest discount department store retailers, with 
a chain of 168 stores operating throughout Australia (and a further 14 in 
New Zealand).  Kmart retails general merchandise, including clothing, 
footwear and accessories; homewares; toys and other leisure products; 
gardening, hardware and tools; everyday needs including toiletries and 
cosmetics; home appliances and entertainment products; and stationery 
and office products. Kmart also runs Kmart Tyre and Auto Service 
centres. Woolworths does not intend to acquire the Kmart Tyre and Auto 
business. 
• 
Target - a chain of 260 department stores operating throughout Australia. 
Target trades under the brands Target, Target Country and Baby Target. 
Target retails general merchandise including clothing, footwear and 
accessories; homewares, toys and other leisure products; toiletries and 
cosmetics; and technology products, including audio-visual products, 
cameras, telephones and computers. 
13. 
Coles also has interests in supermarkets, liquor stores and service stations. 
Woolworths does not propose to acquire any of those assets as part of the 
proposed acquisition.   
Market inquiries 
14. 
On 15 June 2007, the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, 
including other retailers, suppliers of the relevant Coles and Woolworths 
businesses, shopping centre landlords and industry associations. 
15. 
As a result of Wesfarmers’ proposal being recommended by the Coles board, a 
number of market participants chose not to make submissions during market 
inquiries. All interested parties are now advised that they should make a 
submission before 19 September if they have information which they believe 
should be taken into account in the ACCC’s review of the proposed acquisition. 
Industry background 
Different store formats
16. 
General merchandise is sold by a large number of retailers operating in different 
formats. Key formats tend to be comprised of national chains. They include: 
• 
Discount Department Stores (DDS) – sell a broad range of merchandise. 
They generally focus on attracting price conscious customers, with an 
emphasis on low prices and good value. Customers are usually expected 
to self-serve in store, and transactions take place via a large bank of 
checkouts at the front of the store. E.g. Big W, Kmart, Target. 
• 
Traditional Department Stores – sell products across a relatively broad 
range of product categories.  They generally focus on attracting medium 
3 


 
 
to higher income customers, with an emphasis on fashion and on well-
known national and international brands. These stores market themselves 
as offering a higher degree of customer service, and cashiers are located 
throughout the store. E.g. David Jones, Myer. 
• 
Large specialty retailers – sometimes referred to as ‘mini-majors’, 
specialise in a particular category (or a small number of categories) of 
general merchandise, sold in a relatively large format and with an 
extensive product range. E.g. Bunnings (hardware, gardening), 
Supercheap Auto (automotive), Rebel Sport (sporting goods).  
17. 
General merchandise is also sold in discount variety stores, which sell lower 
priced and generally non-branded merchandise across a range of categories (e.g. 
The Reject Shop, Crazy Clarks) and smaller specialty retailers, which 
specialise in a particular category or type of merchandise, and are often chain 
stores.  
18. 
Supermarkets also complement their primary food and grocery product range 
with a small to medium range of general merchandise goods, most of which fall 
into the category of everyday needs.  
Industry structure and competition 
19. 
The three major chains of DDS are Target, Kmart and Big W. Coles owns two 
DDS chains, Target and Kmart, while Woolworths owns one, Big W. 
20. 
While there are a range of different store formats selling various categories of 
general merchandise, the customer experience differs depending on the format. 
Retailers compete not only by broad product category, but also on price, quality, 
range, convenience and service. 
21. 
That is, the extent to which one firm competitively constrains another depends 
on all of these factors, not simply on its share of sales in a particular product 
category. A firm which has a similar offering in terms of these factors is a much 
closer constraint than a firm which, despite selling items in the same product 
category, operates at a very different price point and with different levels of 
service and quality. 
22. 
Market inquiries indicated that, in general, Kmart and Target operate as strong 
constraints on Big W, and the reverse is also true. Overall, Kmart is likely to 
provide a stronger competitive constraint on Big W than is provided by Target, 
due to the fact that Kmart and Big W are most similar in terms of factors such as 
price, range, service levels and store format.   
23. 
In terms of product range, market inquiries suggested that consumers value the 
multi-product offering of the DDS chains. 
24. 
Inquiries to date also indicate that the DDS chains determine the vast majority 
of prices on a national basis, rather than store by store. Accordingly, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that the competitive constraint Big W places on 
Kmart (and to a lesser degree on Target) is most likely to manifest itself at the 
national level. If the removal of the pricing constraint Big W imposes on Kmart 
(and vice versa) results in an increase in prices, this would more likely occur 
across all stores nationally – rather than just at the local store level.  To the 
4 


 
 
extent the number of DDS outlets in Australia diminishes, the competitive 
constraint the DDS chains impose on each other may also be lessened.   
25. 
The ACCC encourages comments on how the proposed acquisitions will affect 
the competitive constraints imposed on Big W.          
Statement of issues 
26. 
For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into two categories, 'issues that may raise concerns' and 'issues unlikely to pose 
concerns'. 
27. 
This section provides an overview of the ACCC’s preliminary views on the 
transaction. The remainder of the Statement of Issues is divided into sections 
relating specifically to the acquisition of each of Kmart, Target and 
Officeworks. 
28. 
A fourth section discusses concerns raised in relation to the increased size of 
Woolworths’ retail operations, specifically regarding the likelihood that, post 
merger, Woolworths will be able to negotiate improved lease terms and whether 
this raises competitive issues.   
With and without test 
29. 
The proposed acquisition will only breach s 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 
(the Act) if the situation with the Woolworths acquisition constitutes a 
substantial lessening of competition compared to the situation without the 
Woolworths acquisition.  
30. 
Without the proposed acquisition by Woolworths, it appears likely that Kmart 
and Target will continue to be owned by a single company, whether that owner 
is Coles or Wesfarmers. That is, without the Woolworths acquisition, the most 
likely scenario is essentially a continuation of the current industry structure.  
31. 
If Woolworths’ proposed acquisition proceeds, the ownership of DDS chains 
would change from Coles owning 2 DDS chains and Woolworths owning 1 
DDS chain to the reverse of this (see table 1 below). 
 Table 1: Ownership of DDS chains with and without the Woolworths acquisition 
 
Without the Woolworths 
acquisition 
With the Woolworths 
acquisition 
Coles (or 
another 
owner) 
2 DDS (Kmart and Target) + 
Officeworks 
1 DDS (Kmart or Target) 
Woolworths 
1 DDS (Big W) 
2 DDS (Big W plus Kmart or 
Target) + Officeworks 
 
32. 
Although post-merger the overall number of major DDS chains which operate 
independently may not change, the ACCC considers that it is necessary to 
5 


 
 
consider whether a lessening of competition may occur due to the change in the 
particular chains which would be jointly owned. This may occur if, for instance, 
Kmart and Big W are each other’s closest competitors in certain product 
categories, and other retailers (including Target) are sufficiently different from 
Kmart and Big W such that a combined Kmart/Big W would be able to increase 
prices while losing little or no market share to competitors. 
Preliminary views and areas where the ACCC seeks further information 
33. 
Based on the information currently before it, the ACCC’s preliminary view is 
that there are some product categories where such a lessening of competition 
may occur, due to the characteristics of Big W, Kmart and Target. The ACCC is 
seeking further information from market participants in order to confirm or 
reject this proposition. 
34. 
For example, Big W and Kmart both have a strong focus on low prices and 
basic everyday items across a wide range of goods. Target, on the other hand, 
has a greater focus on soft goods, e.g. clothing and manchester, and providing 
‘value for money’ rather than the lowest prices. There are therefore a number of 
areas in which Big W and Kmart are active, but Target is not considered to be as 
close a competitor. In other areas, Big W and Target are both quite strong but 
Kmart is relatively weak. 
35. 
The ACCC notes that DDS chains can change their competitive positioning (in 
terms of price, range, service levels, store layout etc) over time. However, any 
significant change in a store’s positioning is a difficult exercise which takes 
time and investment to plan, implement and advertise convincingly to 
consumers. The ACCC therefore considers that the current position of each 
DDS is highly relevant to this assessment. 
36. 
Another potential source of a lessening of future competition may arise if, in the 
absence of the acquisition, Woolworths would have been likely to expand its 
Big W chain considerably, and/or open up a large specialty office products 
retailer of its own (in direct competition with Officeworks), but with the 
acquisition it would not do so. 
Proposed acquisition of Kmart 
Issues that may raise concerns 
37. 
Market participants expressed strong concerns about Big W’s proposed 
acquisition of Kmart given the similarity between the two businesses. It was 
suggested that, without Kmart as a competitive constraint, Big W may be able to 
profitably raise its prices for certain products or categories of products.   
38. 
In addition, some market participants noted that Big W and Kmart, despite 
being active in the same segments, sometimes carry different products. In the 
event that all Kmart stores are converted to Big W stores, there may be a 
reduction in consumer choice in those segments where Big W and Kmart are 
currently each other’s strongest competitor. Consumers in areas where there is 
currently both a Kmart and a Big W are particularly likely to experience a 
reduction in the range of products available to them. 
6 


 
 
39. 
Market participants were also concerned about an increase in Woolworths’ 
bargaining power in relation to suppliers of general merchandise. However, the 
ACCC has not received evidence to substantiate a claim that an increase in 
Woolworths’ bargaining power will substantially lessen competition compared 
to the situation absent the acquisition (in which Kmart and Target are owned by 
a single entity).  
40. 
While entry on a small scale appears to be possible, market inquiries indicated 
that a firm would need to operate on a large scale to constrain chains such as 
Big W, in part to achieve similar volume discounts. Market participants 
submitted that large scale entry is difficult due to the need for a network of 
convenient and appropriately sized retail sites, which is difficult to obtain.   
Questions 
For each of the following questions, the ACCC seeks the views of market 
participants, supported by an explanation of the basis on which the view was 
formed. Please provide evidence wherever possible. 
41. 
The ACCC has identified the following as categories in which Kmart may be 
Big W’s closest competitor, and in respect of which Woolworths’ proposal to 
acquire Kmart may raise competition concerns:  
• basic menswear 
• basic womenswear 
• childrenswear 
• footwear  
• toys 
• CDs and DVDs 
• books.  
 
42. 
Please identify any other product categories in which Big W and Kmart are each 
other’s closest competitors and are not strongly constrained by competition 
from other retailers.  Alternatively if you do not agree that they are each other’s 
competitors in any of these categories, or if you believe other firms are likely to 
constrain a combined Big W / Kmart in these categories, please outline your 
views and the basis for them. 
43. 
For each of the segments identified above, the ACCC seeks further 
information on the following: 
(a) Is Kmart Big W’s closest competitor?  
(b) Is either Big W or Kmart currently considered the lowest price retailer in 
the category?  
(c) Are there other competitors in the category who are strongly price 
competitive and position themselves as low price or ‘value for money’ 
retailers? If so, please list them. 
7 


 
 
(d) Could Big W profitably increase prices after acquiring Kmart, or would 
it be unprofitable to do so due to the loss of significant volumes of sales 
to other retailers you listed under the previous question? 
(e) In the event the merged entity raises prices above competitive levels or 
reduces its range, could other retailers re-position their businesses to 
compete more closely with the merged entity? What would be the time 
and costs involved and how strongly would these retailers be able to 
constrain the merged entity? 
(f) Which products currently available from Kmart may not be supplied if 
Kmart was acquired by Big W, and Kmart stores were rebranded as 
Big W stores, and why do you believe this would be the case? Are these 
products available, or would they become available, from other retailers? 
Why or why not? 
(g) Do you consider prices are likely to be higher if Big W and Kmart were 
combined than they are at present (with Target and Kmart combined)? If 
so, why? 
(h) Post-acquisition, would Woolworths be more able to exert pressure upon 
suppliers, for example, by requiring improved trading terms, than the 
current combination of Kmart and Target? If so, why and what effect 
would this have on the price, range and quality of the product available 
for retail? Could suppliers sell their products through other channels? 
(i) Please provide copies of any surveys relating to customer perceptions of 
Big W, Kmart and others in the relevant categories. 
(j) Please provide any information relating to the market or sales shares of 
Big W, Kmart and others in the relevant categories. 
44. 
To form a concluded view on the likely competition effects of Big W’s proposal 
to acquire Kmart, the ACCC also seeks further information specific to each 
category discussed below.  
Basic menswear 
45. 
Big W and Kmart both sell menswear, with a particular focus on basic items at 
low prices, and a reliance on selection by the customer. 
46. 
The ACCC is interested in whether Big W (if it acquired Kmart) could 
profitably increase the prices, or reduce the range, of basic items of men’s 
clothing. Alternatively, would it be constrained from doing so by Target or any 
other new or existing retailer of menswear? 
Questions 
47. 
The ACCC invites further comments on the extent to which specialty retailers 
constrain Big W and Kmart in the sale of menswear. Specifically, the ACCC 
invites comments on the following: 
(a) Is there any effect on sales figures at these specialty retailers when 
Big W or Kmart have a sale on men’s apparel? If so, to what degree are 
sales figures at specialty retailers affected and which apparel lines are 
affected most?  
8 


 
 
(b) Is the reverse true (i.e. do specialty retailers take business from Big W or 
Kmart when they hold sales or clearances of basic menswear)? If so, to 
what degree are sales figures at Big W and Kmart affected and what 
apparel lines are affected most? 
(c) Do certain specialty menswear retailers set their prices using Big W, 
Kmart or Target prices as benchmarks? If so, please identify these 
retailers and outline how this works in practice. Which of the three DDS 
is more important in setting any such benchmarks?    
(d) Post-acquisition, by how much could Big W increase its prices on basic 
menswear before a significant number of consumers would turn to 
specialty stores, Target, or traditional department stores (Myer or David 
Jones) for these basic items? 
(e) Please also address the questions listed in paragraph 43 above. 
Basic womenswear 
48. 
Big W and Kmart both sell womenswear, with a particular focus on basic items 
at low prices, and a reliance on selection by the customer. 
49. 
The ACCC is interested in whether Big W (if it acquired Kmart) could 
profitably increase the prices, or reduce the range, of basic items of women’s 
clothing. Alternatively, would it be constrained from doing so by Target or any 
other new or existing retailer of womenswear? 
Questions 
50. 
The ACCC invites further comments on the extent to which specialty retailers 
constrain Big W and Kmart in the sale of womenswear. Specifically: 
(a) Is there any effect on sales figures at specialty retailers when Big W or 
Kmart have a sale on women’s apparel? If so, to what degree are sales 
figures at specialty retailers affected and what apparel lines are affected 
most?  
(b) Is the reverse true (i.e. do specialty retailers take business from Big W or 
Kmart when they hold sales or clearances of basic womenswear)? If so, 
to what degree are sales figures at Big W and Kmart affected and what 
apparel lines are affected most? 
(c) Do certain specialty womenswear retailers set their prices using Big W, 
Kmart or Target prices as benchmarks? If so, please identify these 
retailers and outline how this works in practice. Which of the three DDS 
is more important in setting any such benchmarks?    
(d) Post-acquisition, by how much could Big W increase its prices on basic 
womenswear before a significant number of consumers turned to 
specialty stores, Target, or traditional department stores for basic 
womenswear? 
(e) Please also address the questions listed in paragraph 43 above. 
Basic childrenswear (including baby clothing) 
51. 
Big W and Kmart both sell childrenswear, with a particular focus on basic items 
at low prices, and a reliance on selection by the customer. 
9 


 
 
52. 
The ACCC is interested in whether Big W (if it acquired Kmart) could 
profitably increase the prices, or reduce the range, of basic items of children’s 
clothing. Alternatively, would it be constrained from doing so by Target, Best & 
Less, or any other new or existing retailer of childrenswear? 
Questions 
53. 
The ACCC invites further comments on the extent to which specialty retailers 
constrain DDS in the sale of childrenswear. Specifically, the ACCC invites 
comments on the following: 
(a) Is there any effect on sales figures at specialty retailers when Big W or 
Kmart have a sale on children’s apparel? If so, by how much and what 
apparel lines are affected most? 
(b) Is the reverse true (i.e. do specialty retailers take business from Big W or 
Kmart when they hold sales or clearances of basic childrenswear)? 
(c) Do certain specialty childrenswear retailers set their prices using Big W, 
Kmart or Target prices as benchmarks? If so, please identify these 
retailers and outline how this works in practice. Which of the three DDS 
is more important in setting any such benchmarks?    
(d) Post-acquisition, by how much could Big W increase its prices on basic 
childrenswear before consumers turned to specialty stores, Target, or 
department stores for basic childrenswear? 
(e) Please also address the questions listed in paragraph 43 above. 
Basic footwear 
54. 
Big W and Kmart both sell basic footwear for men, women and children, 
including dress fashion, boots, dress shoes, sports shoes, casual shoes, thongs, 
scuffs and slippers. Market inquires to this point indicate that, unlike most shoe 
retailers, both Big W and Kmart rely largely on customer self-service, and they 
focus on footwear for under or around $20, other than during the ‘back to 
school’ period each year when they compete more directly with a range of other 
footwear retailers.  
55. 
While there are a number of other footwear retailers, it is unclear whether the 
scale and pricing will allow any of these retailers to effectively compete with 
Big W and Kmart in the sale of footwear for under or around $20. 
56. 
The ACCC is interested in whether Big W (if it acquired Kmart) would be able 
to raise prices, or reduce the quality of its footwear, without losing significant 
market share as a result. 
Questions 
57. 
The ACCC invites further comments on the extent to which specialty retailers 
constrain DDS chains in the sale of footwear. Specifically: 
(a) Whether Big W’s range of footwear is more similar to Kmart’s or to 
Target’s in terms of (i) quality, and (ii) price? 
(b) Would a combined Big W / Kmart be constrained by other shoe retailers 
such as Payless or Spendless Shoes? Could specialist retailers reposition 
10 


 
 
themselves to compete more closely against Kmart and Big W’s in terms 
of price, quality and service, and what barrier would they face in 
attempting to do so?  
(c) Post-acquisition, by how much could Big W increase its prices on basic 
footwear before consumers turned to specialty stores, Target, or 
department stores for basic footwear? 
(d) Do other shoe retailers such as Payless or Spendless Shoes set their 
prices using Big W, Kmart or Target prices as benchmarks? If so how 
does this work in practice? Which of the three DDS is more important in 
setting any such benchmarks?    
(e) Please also address the questions listed in paragraph 43 above. 
Toys (other than electronic games) 
58. 
Big W and Kmart are both price competitive toy retailers, although market 
inquiries indicated that Kmart provides a wider range of items. Market inquiries 
indicated that Target is also price competitive in relation to toys, but appears to 
be stronger in its range of nursery items than toys for older children. 
Information provided to the ACCC so far suggests that specialty toy retailers, 
such as Toys R Us, Toy World and Toy Kingdom do not exert a strong price 
constraint on Big W or Kmart.  
59. 
The ACCC is interested in whether, post-acquisition, a combined Big W and 
Kmart could profitably increase the prices of toys.  Alternatively, would it be 
constrained from doing so by Target, Toys R Us, or any other new or existing 
retailer of toys?  
60. 
The ACCC is also interested in whether the range of toys currently stocked by 
Kmart would remain available to consumers through other outlets if Kmart 
stores were converted to Big W.   
Questions 
61. 
The ACCC invites further comments on the extent to which specialty retailers 
constrain DDS chains in the sale of toys. Specifically, the ACCC invites 
comments on the following: 
(a) Is Kmart’s range of toys more similar to Target’s or to Big W’s? 
(b) Why do you consider that Kmart’s ‘Toys for Kids’ store exited the 
market, and are there any other examples of attempted large-scale new 
entry in toy retailing in the last 5 years? If so, what were the results?   
(c) Will toy suppliers reduce the range of toys that they supply in Australia 
if Kmart’s range becomes more similar to Big W’s? If so, why? 
(d) Do specialty toy retailers set their prices using Big W, Kmart or Target 
prices as benchmarks? If so how does this work in practice? Which of 
the three DDS chains is more important in setting any such benchmarks?    
(e) Please also address the questions listed in paragraph 43 above. 
CDs and DVDs 
62. 
Big W and Kmart concentrate on selling a selection of the most popular CDs 
and DVDs at low prices, and a selection of highly discounted CDs or DVDs. 
11 


 
 
The ACCC’s inquiries so far indicate that they are generally not considered to 
be particularly strong in providing a wide range of CDs and DVDs.  
63. 
Target has reduced its CD and DVD offering over the last five to six years. 
Market inquiries to date indicate that other major participants provide a wide 
range of products, but generally at higher prices than those products sold by the 
DDS chains.  
64. 
The ACCC is interested in whether Big W (if it acquired Kmart) could 
profitably increase the prices of popular (e.g. top 20) and discounted CDs and 
DVDs. Alternatively, would it be constrained from doing so by Target, JB Hi-
Fi, Sanity, or any other new or existing retailer of CDs and DVDs, including 
online stores and downloads? 
65. 
The ACCC is also interested in any competitive impact the transaction may 
have on the wholesale supply of CDs and DVDs.  
Questions 
66. 
The ACCC invites further comments on the extent of competition between 
Kmart and Big W in the sale of CDs and DVDs, and the likely effects of the 
acquisition. Specifically, the ACCC invites comments on: 
(a) What range and volume of popular CDs and DVDs do other retailers sell 
and what is the wholesale cost of those CDs and DVDs to those retailers? 
(b) Are the sales figures of retailers of CDs and DVDs affected when there is 
a sale on DVDs/CDs at Big W or Kmart? If so, by how much? Are any 
effects experienced only on sales of the most popular CDs and DVDs or 
are there other types of CDs/DVDs which are affected? 
(c) Do prices of DVDs and CDs at DDS influence pricing of popular or new 
release titles by specialty CD or DVD retailers? If so, please provide 
details of how prices are set in comparison to prices being charged by 
DDS such as Big W. 
(d) How do retailers of CDs and DVDs set their sale prices? Are popular or 
new release titles priced lower than DDS in order to attract customers? 
Please provide details of how sale prices of popular or new release titles 
compare with those offered by DDS. 
(e) Please also address the questions listed in paragraph 43 above. 
Books 
67. 
Information provided to the ACCC so far suggests that Big W and Kmart each 
provide a limited range of low priced, popular books and do not attempt to 
compete with specialist bookstores on the basis of range. Market inquiries 
indicate that Target is not a strong competitor in the retail of books. Other major 
participants in the retail of books include Borders and Angus & Robertson.  
68. 
The ACCC is interested in whether, post-acquisition, Big W (if it acquired 
Kmart) could profitably increase the prices of books. Alternatively, would it be 
constrained from doing so by Target, Borders, or any other new or existing 
retailer of books? 
12 


 
 
69. 
The ACCC is also interested in the effects of Woolworths’ increased bargaining 
power relative to publishers and other suppliers of books post-acquisition. 
Questions 
70. 
The ACCC invites further comments on the extent of competition between 
Kmart and Big W in the sale of books, and the strength of the constraint 
provided by other retailers. Specifically, the ACCC invites comments on: 
(a) Are the sales figures of book retailers affected when there is a sale on 
books at Big W or Kmart? If so, by how much? Are any effects 
experienced only on sales of the most popular books and new release 
titles or are there other types of books which are affected?  
(b) Do prices of books at DDS chains influence pricing of popular or new 
release titles by specialty book retailers? If so, please provide details of 
how prices are set in comparison to prices being charged by DDS chains 
such as Big W. 
(c) How do retailers of books set their sale prices? Please provide details of 
how sale prices of popular or new release titles compare with those 
offered by DDS. 
(d) Please also address the questions listed in paragraph 43 above. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
71. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Woolworths’ proposal to acquire Kmart 
does not appear to raise competition concerns in the following areas: 
• Markets for the wholesale supply of clothing 
• Accessories  
• Garden, hardware and tools  
• Home appliances and entertainment  
• Children’s nursery 
• Manchester 
• Soft furnishings 
• Home furnishings  
• Electronic games 
• Sporting goods 
• Travel goods 
• Everyday needs  
• Pet food and accessories 
• Computers and related accessories 
• Office furniture. 
72. 
In some of these categories, Big W and Kmart do not appear to be each other’s 
closest competitors, while in others, the combined entity appears likely to be 
constrained by competitors (e.g. Bunnings in garden, hardware, and tools).  
13 


 
 
73. 
Notwithstanding its preliminary view, the ACCC will consider any further 
submissions providing evidence to show that the proposed acquisition would be 
likely to substantially lessen competition in relation to any of these categories.  
Proposed acquisition of Target 
Issues that may raise concerns 
74. 
While the ACCC notes that in most categories, Target appears to be a less 
significant constraint on Big W than Kmart is, in some categories of ‘soft 
goods’, Target is considered by market participants to be Big W’s closest 
competitor. 
Questions 
For each of the following questions, the ACCC seeks the views of market 
participants, supported by an explanation of the basis on which the view was 
formed. Please provide evidence wherever possible. 
75. 
The ACCC has identified the following as categories in which Target may be 
Big W’s closest competitor, and in respect of which Woolworths’ proposal to 
acquire Target may raise competition concerns:  
• childrenswear  
• toys 
• nursery.  
Please identify any other segments in which Big W and Target are each other’s 
closest competitor, or if you do not agree that they are each other’s competitors 
in any of these categories, please explain why. 
76. 
For each of the segments identified above, the ACCC seeks further 
information on the following: 
(a) Do you consider that Target is Big W’s closest competitor?  
(b) Please list any other competitors which are strongly price competitive 
and position themselves as ‘low price’ or ‘good value’ retailers, and 
indicate whether they are close enough competitors to Big W and Target 
to prevent a price rise if Woolworths acquires Target. 
(c) Do you consider that competition in the category will be substantially 
lessened as a result of Woolworths acquiring Target? If so, how is this 
likely to occur?  
(d) In the event the merged entity raises prices above competitive levels or 
reduces its range, please comment on whether other retailers could re-
position their businesses to compete more closely with the merged entity. 
What would be the time and costs involved and how strongly would 
these retailers constrain the merged entity? 
(e) Please provide copies of any surveys relating to customer perceptions of 
Big W, Target and others in the relevant categories, and any information 
relating to the market or sales shares of Big W, Target and others in the 
relevant categories. 
14 


 
 
77. 
To form a concluded view on the likely competition effects of Big W’s proposal 
to acquire Target, the ACCC also seeks further information specific to each 
category discussed below.  
Childrenswear 
78. 
The ACCC understands that Target is a vigorous and effective competitor in 
children’s apparel, strongly focused on quality. Although Target does not 
compete primarily on the basis of lowest prices with Kmart and Big W, it 
appears that it is still significantly lower priced than traditional department 
stores and many specialty stores.  
79. 
Big W has lines of comparable childrenswear at similar prices to Target. The 
ACCC is concerned that a combined Big W / Target may be able to reduce 
quality or increase prices, due to the lack of other competitors with a similar 
product offering (in terms of quality and price).  It is unclear whether Kmart or 
other retailers impose a strong constraint on Big W and Kmart in childrenswear, 
and the ACCC seeks further information on this question. 
Questions 
80. 
The ACCC invites further comments on whether there are likely to be 
competition concerns in the retail supply of childrenswear post-acquisition of 
Target. Specifically, the ACCC invites comments on: 
(a) The extent to which Big W’s childrenswear is comparable to, and 
competes with, Target’s lines in terms of style, quality and price. 
(b) Whether Best & Less or Kmart’s range (or any other retailer’s range) of 
childrenswear is sufficiently competitive with Target and Big W in terms 
of quality, appearance and price that it would prevent them from 
increasing prices post-acquisition. 
(c) Please also provide details of any other constraints you consider might 
limit the ability of the merged entity to raise prices or reduce its range.  
(d) Please also address the questions listed in paragraph 76 above. 
Toys 
81. 
As discussed in relation to Big W’s proposal to acquire Kmart, all three DDS 
chains retail toys. Competition concerns from the acquisition of Target may 
arise if the constraint Kmart could impose on a combined Big W and Target 
post-acquisition would be weaker than the constraint that Big W is currently 
able to impose on Kmart and Target. 
82. 
Market participants provided mixed feedback on whether this is in fact the case. 
The ACCC therefore seeks further views and evidence on the competitive 
constraint provided by each of Target and Kmart on Big W.  
Questions 
83. 
The ACCC invites further comments on whether there are likely to be 
competition concerns in relation to toys if Woolworths acquires Target. 
Specifically, the ACCC invites comments on the following questions: 
15 


 
 
(a) Is Target a closer competitor to Big W than it is to Kmart? Please 
provide reasons. 
(b) Will toy suppliers reduce the range of toys that they supply in Australia 
if Target’s range becomes more similar to Big W’s? Why or why not? 
(c) Please also address the questions listed in paragraph 76 above. 
Nursery 
84. 
Market participants indicated that Target (including Baby Target) is the leader 
in nursery products, including: baby toys, prams, cots, baby gates and car seats. 
Big W and Kmart also have a range of nursery products, which are 
competitively priced. Other competitors include Toys R Us and regional baby 
specialty stores such as Babies Galore, Babyco, Baby Bunting or Baby on a 
Budget.   
85. 
The ACCC is interested whether the acquisition of Target would enable the 
merged entity to raise prices or reduce the range of nursery products it supplies.  
Questions 
86. 
The ACCC seeks information on the following questions: 
(a) Do you consider that Target is the strongest competitor in nursery items? 
(b) To what degree do other nursery retailers (such as Baby Bunting) offer a 
similar range at similar prices to Target and Big W? 
(c) Is there any effect on sales figures at specialist retailers when Target and 
Big W have sales on nursery products? If so, by how much and what 
lines are affected most? 
(d) Is the reverse true (i.e. do specialty retailers take business from Big W or 
Target when they hold sales or clearances of nursery products)? If so, to 
what degree are sales figures at Big W and Target affected and what 
nursery product lines are affected most?  
(e) Do specialist nursery retailers set their prices using Big W, Kmart or 
Target prices as benchmarks? If so, how does this work in practice? 
Which of the three DDS is more important in setting any such 
benchmarks? 
(f) Post-acquisition, by how much could Big W increase its prices on 
nursery products before consumers turned to specialty retailers, Kmart, 
or department stores? 
(g) Please also address the questions listed in paragraph 76 above. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
87. 
Based on the information before it, the ACCC considers it unlikely that the 
acquisition of Target would significantly increase Big W’s bargaining power in 
relation to suppliers. In many cases, Target’s suppliers are different from those 
used by Big W and Kmart. In the cases where Target and Big W do use the 
same suppliers, it is frequently the case that the combined purchases of Big W 
and Target are no greater than the current combined purchases of Kmart and 
Target. 
16 


 
 
88. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Woolworths’ proposal to acquire Target 
does not appear to raise competition concerns in respect of the following 
categories: 
• Accessories  
• Garden, hardware and tools  
• Home appliances and entertainment  
• Menswear 
• Womenswear 
• Children’s nursery 
• Footwear 
• Manchester 
• Soft furnishings 
• Home furnishings  
• Electronic games 
• Sporting goods 
• Travel goods 
• Everyday needs 
• Pet food and accessories 
• Computers and related accessories 
• Office furniture 
• Books 
• CDs and DVDs. 
89. 
In some of these categories, Big W and Target do not appear to be each other’s 
closest competitors, while in others, the combined entity appears likely to be 
constrained by competitors (e.g. Bunnings in garden, hardware, and tools).  
90. 
Notwithstanding its preliminary view, the ACCC will consider any further 
submissions providing evidence to show that the proposed acquisition would be 
likely to substantially lessen competition in relation to any of these categories.  
Proposed acquisition of Officeworks (and Kmart) 
91. 
The range of products sold by Officeworks includes stationery, office furniture, 
technology products such as computers, as well as print services such as 
photocopying, laminating and binding.  The ACCC understands Officeworks 
primarily sells products to home users and small businesses, via three routes: 
• Officeworks retail stores.  
• Officeworks BusinessDirect - which sells to small to medium sized 
businesses including via online sales. 
17 


 
 
• Harris Technology - a reseller of technology to small and medium 
business, including computers, storage printing, accessories, servers and 
software. 
92. 
Kmart and Big W stock a more limited range of stationery and home office 
products, generally targeted at home users.  
93. 
There are a number of areas of overlap between Officeworks and the existing 
operations of Woolworths: 
• Computers and accessories are sold through Dick Smith stores and 
Tandy.  Selected accessories (e.g. printers, keyboards, speakers. flash 
drives, CD-RW’s) are also sold through Big W. 
• Office furniture is sold through Big W. 
• Stationery is sold through Big W and Woolworths supermarket outlets. 
Issues that may raise concerns: office stationery to home and small business users 
94. 
Given that Officeworks, Kmart and Target primarily focus on sales to home 
users and the small business sector, the ACCC has focussed its inquiries most 
heavily on this sector. Market participants expressed concerns that if 
Woolworths acquired both Kmart and Officeworks, it would face little 
competition in sales to home and small business users and may be able to raise 
prices above competitive levels, because Kmart, Big W and Officeworks are the 
main competitors for these segments.  
95. 
Market participants considered that suppliers of office stationery to medium to 
large sized businesses could not easily re-orient their operations to service home 
and small business users, particularly given the need for a network of retail 
outlets. 
96. 
While consistent estimates of sales shares have been difficult to obtain, the 
ACCC understands that Officeworks is the largest retailer of office products to 
home and small business users. Big W and Kmart also appear to be significant 
retailers to these consumers, and Officeworks’ closest competitors in this 
regard.  
97. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicated that there are a number of other retailers, but 
they are unlikely to constrain the merged entity. Other retailers include Office 
National and Office Choice, who generally sell to medium sized businesses, and 
may also retail to smaller firms. While supermarkets are primary competitors 
throughout the high volume ‘back to school’ period, their limited range means 
they are not strong competitors throughout the year. Newsagents have limited 
floor space devoted to stationery supplies. As a result, the merged entity may be 
able to raise prices above competitive levels or reduce its range. 
98. 
Based on the ACCC’s market inquiries, it appears that, if Woolworths acquired 
both Officeworks and Kmart, it would then own the three largest retailers of 
office stationery supplies (including Big W) to these categories of consumers.   
99. 
The ACCC is interested in whether, in the event Woolworths acquires 
Officeworks and Kmart, it could profitably increase the prices of office 
stationery products to home users and small businesses, or whether other 
competitors would be able to constrain the merged entity. 
18 


 
 
Questions 
100. The ACCC invites further comments on the extent of competition in this area, 
and the strength of the constraint provided by other retailers. Specifically, the 
ACCC invites comments on: 
(a) The ease with which other retailers could commence retailing to home 
users and small businesses on a scale sufficient to constrain the merged 
entity. 
(i) Please comment on the ability of retailers of office stationery to 
medium sized businesses to establish a network of outlets needed to 
service home users and small businesses. What would be the costs 
involved and how quickly could such a network be established on a 
national or regional basis? 
(ii) If you are a retailer of office stationery to medium sized businesses, 
have you considered such an expansion before? If so, please outline 
why you did or did not proceed. 
(b) The extent to which home users would be likely to ‘shop around’, 
including outside their local shopping centre, in the event the merged 
entity raised prices above competitive levels. 
(c) The competitive constraint provided by other retailers of office stationery 
such as supermarkets and discount variety stores (for example, the Reject 
Shop, the Warehouse and Go-Lo) in the supply of stationery supplies to 
home users. 
(d) The significance of sales to small business in comparison with overall 
office stationery sales by Officeworks, Kmart and Big W. 
(e) Please comment on the ability of small business customers to secure 
supply from other specialty retailers such as Office National and Office 
Choice. 
(f) The sales shares of the different retailers to home users and small 
business. 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
101. The ACCC understands that a range of substantial competitors would continue 
to retail other products sold by Officeworks (computers and computer 
accessories, office furniture and print services). These include Harvey Norman 
in computers and computer accessories and specialty furniture retailers.  
102. While Officeworks also targets medium sized businesses via its Officeworks 
BusinessDirect operation, no concerns were raised in relation to this. The 
ACCC considers that, based on information received to date, firms such as 
Office National and Office Choice, who generally sell to medium to large 
businesses, are likely to constrain the merged entity post-acquisition in these 
segments. 
19 


 
 
Proposed acquisition of Officeworks (and Target) 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
 
103. Given Target’s weaker position in office stationery supplies, the ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition of Officeworks would be 
likely to cause fewer competition concerns if it were acquired in conjunction 
with Target rather than Kmart, since Kmart would remain as a competitor 
playing a role comparable to Big W’s current role.   
104. Notwithstanding its preliminary view, the ACCC will consider any further 
submissions providing evidence to show that the proposed acquisition would be 
likely to substantially lessen competition.  
Landlords 
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
105. During market inquiries several market participants expressed concern about the 
likely impact of the transaction in relation to leases of retail sites, including in 
shopping centres. It was suggested that Woolworths’ increased bargaining 
power may enable it to extract better terms in its leases, which in turn could be 
harmful to other retailers.  
106. The ACCC has considered these concerns, but its preliminary view is that the 
acquisition is not likely to substantially lessen competition in relation to retail 
sites. While the ACCC agrees Woolworths will likely have increased bargaining 
power in relation to landlords post-acquisition, the ACCC notes the acquisition 
does not materially change the industry structure so far as site rentals are 
concerned: Coles currently has two DDS and a large chain of supermarkets, 
while Woolworths has one DDS and a large chain of supermarkets. Post-
acquisition, this would simply be reversed. 
107. Notwithstanding its preliminary view, the ACCC will consider any further 
submissions providing evidence to show that  the proposed acquisition would be 
likely to substantially lessen competition.  
ACCC's future steps 
108. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market 
responses invited by this Statement of Issues. 
109. The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
110. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 19 September 2007. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction 
with information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a 
final view as to the appropriate course of action to take to resolve any 
competition concerns that remain. 
20 


 
 
111. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 3 October 2007. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view will be published following the ACCC's 
public announcement. 
21 
