 
1 
 
Our ref:  
IM-73014 
 
IM-73015  
 
25 September 2025 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Coles’ proposed acquisitions of leasehold interests in 
large-format supermarket sites in Western Melbourne 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your 
views on two proposed acquisitions by Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd (Coles): 
• 
The acquisition of a leasehold interest to establish a new large-format 
supermarket at Deanside Central Town Centre in Deanside, Victoria 
(Deanside Central) 
• 
The acquisition of a leasehold interest to establish a new large-format 
supermarket at Mount Atkinson Major Town Centre, Mount Atkinson, Victoria 
(Mt Atkinson), 
(together, the Proposed Acquisitions). 
Coles has offered to give an undertaking under section 87B of the Competition and 
Consumer Act (the Act) to relinquish its leasehold interest in a site at Kororoit Town 
Centre should the ACCC grant clearance for the Proposed Acquisitions.  
Further details about Coles and the Proposed Acquisitions are provided at 
Attachment A.  
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
competitive overlap of the new supermarkets (when built) in Deanside Central and 
Mount Atkinson with each other, with existing supermarkets in the respective local 
areas and with a supermarket (if established) at Kororoit Town Centre;  
• 
the extent to which each of the Proposed Acquisitions is likely to raise barriers to 
entry and expansion for alternative grocery suppliers to consumers; and 
• 
whether new entry or expansion in the retail supply of grocery products would 
constrain Coles from altering its prices, range, quality and/or service levels. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  


2 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in 
section 50 of the Act. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are likely to have the effect of 
substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 2pm on Wednesday 8 October 2025 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au, with the title: Submission re: Coles/Deanside Central and Mt 
Atkinson. If you require more time to respond, please let us know. 
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity 
to be heard. Therefore, please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager 
Merger Assessments  


 
3 
 
Attachment A 
 
The Acquirer – Coles 
Coles is an Australian ASX-listed company that operates more than 800 
supermarkets nationwide. Coles’ large-format stores typically offer standard grocery 
items, as well as a full-service bakery and deli service. Coles also operates smaller 
format ‘Coles Local’ supermarkets with a smaller range of grocery items.  
Coles operates an online grocery shopping and delivery platform named ‘Coles 
Online’, which allows customers to shop for groceries with either home delivery 
options or pick up from ‘Click&Collect’ locations at existing Coles stores.  
Coles currently operates several supermarkets in the region where the target 
leasehold interests are located, including at Woodlea, Caroline Springs and Taylors 
Hill.  
Coles also holds a leasehold interest in a site designated for future supermarket use 
in Kororoit, roughly halfway between the Deanside Central and Mt Atkinson locations.  
Proposed Acquisitions 
The Proposed Acquisitions are each for leases for greenfield supermarket 
developments in the Melton region in Victoria. This geographic area, which is 
undergoing significant development, is known as the ‘Melton Growth Corridor’.  
These are separate transactions with separate vendors, for which the ACCC is 
conducting separate reviews. However, as the stores are in close proximity to one 
another and the transactions are occurring at similar times, the ACCC is considering 
the two transactions concurrently.  
Proposed acquisition of Deanside Central Site 
Coles has entered into an agreement for lease in relation to a proposed shopping 
centre at Deanside Central Town Centre in Deanside, Victoria (Deanside Central 
Proposed Acquisition). Coles expects its new store to commence trading in the 
centre in 2027 with a 2,800sqm saleable floor area. This site is also proposed to have 
6 ‘Click&Collect’ bays for Coles Online orders, and a Liquorland store.  
The lessor for the Deanside Central location is Oreana Property Group, a privately-
owned Australian property development, construction and investment group.  
Proposed acquisition of Mt Atkinson Site 
Coles is in final negotiations regarding an agreement for lease in relation to a 
proposed shopping centre in the Mt Atkinson Major Town Centre, Victoria (Mt 
Atkinson Proposed Acquisition). Coles expects its new store to launch in mid-2028 
with a 2,800sqm saleable floor area. This site is also proposed to have 6 
‘Click&Collect’ bays for Coles Online orders, and a Mt Atkinson Liquorland store.  
The lessor for the Mt Atkinson location is Mt Atkinson Holdings Pty Ltd & Mensch 
Investments No. 3 Partnership, the landholder and developer of the Mt Atkinson Major Town 
Centre site.  


 
4 
 
Attachment B – List of Questions  
Note: It will assist the ACCC if in responding you would clearly identify whether 
your comments relate to both sites, or one specific site.  
1. To better understand your views, describe your business or organisation and explain 
your interest in the Proposed Acquisitions, including any commercial relationship/s with 
Coles, Oreana Property Group or Mt Atkinson Holdings Pty Ltd & Mensch Investments 
No. 3 Partnership. 
Competition in retail market for the supply of groceries 
2. Identify which stores, and prospective stores, you consider would be close 
competitors to Coles if it was to commence supermarket operations at Deanside 
Central and/or Mt Atkinson. In responding, discuss the likely extent of 
competitive overlap between the Kororoit site and each of the Deanside Central 
and Mt Atkinson sites 
3. Describe how far consumers typically travel in local areas in north-west 
Melbourne, and particularly in the vicinity of Deanside Central and/or Mt Atkinson, 
to access supermarket sites, including large-format supermarkets.   
Likelihood of entry or expansion 
4. Identify any credible alternative acquirers of the Deanside Central or Mt Atkinson 
sites and discuss the likelihood of such acquirers doing so absent the Proposed 
Acquisitions.   
5. Discuss the availability of sites in the Melton Growth Corridor that are suitable for 
large-format supermarkets, including any relevant planning and zoning 
limitations. 
Note: large-format supermarkets generally refer to stores that are larger than 
approximately 2,000sqm. 
6. Identify whether you expect new entry in supermarket retailing is likely to occur in 
the Melton Growth Corridor before or after Coles builds a supermarket store at 
the target sites, and whether such entry would be of sufficient scale and within a 
sufficient timeframe to impose a competitive constraint on Coles if it proceeds 
with one or both of the Proposed Acquisitions. 
7. Discuss whether Coles’ proposed divestiture of the Kororoit Town Centre site 
would or would not fully address any competition concerns you have in relation to 
the Proposed Acquisitions. In responding, discuss how likely is an alternative 
supermarket operator to establish a supermarket at the Kororoit site, and in what 
timeframe. 
Other information and competition issues 
8. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the likely competitive effects of the Proposed 
Acquisitions.  
