 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: 
IM-71427 
Contact officer: 
Sidd Sharma  
Contact phone: 
02 9102 4011 
18 October 2021 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Woodside’s proposed acquisition of BHP Petroleum 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on, 
and information to help us assess, the proposed acquisition of BHP Petroleum International 
Pty Ltd (BHP Petroleum) by Woodside Petroleum Limited (Woodside) (the proposed 
acquisition). 
Woodside and BHP Petroleum are both oil and gas companies with oil and gas operations 
and exploration, development and production activities. Woodside has assets and 
operations in Western Australia and overseas. BHP Petroleum has assets in Western 
Australia, Bass Strait and overseas. Woodside and BHP Petroleum both export Liquefied 
Natural Gas (LNG), Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), condensate and oil from Australia and 
supply domestic gas to consumers in Western Australia (WA domgas). Further details are 
provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition.  In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
whether Woodside and BHP Petroleum are close competitors for the supply of WA 
domgas or the export of LNG, LPG, condensate and oil, 
• 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on prices for the supply of WA domgas 
or the export of LNG, LPG, condensate and oil, 
• 
the likely impact on the use of, and access to, WA domgas infrastructure, including 
processing capacity, 
• 
the availability of alternatives to customers. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 29 October 2021 via email with the title: Submission re: 


Woodside BHP Petroleum - attention Sidd Sharma / Shermara Fernando. If you require 
more time to respond, please let us know. If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the 
matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this letter, please contact 
Shermara Fernando on 02 9230 3893 or Sidd Sharma on 02 9102 4011. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, and will 
not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of information 
legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and 
Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential information, we will notify 
you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore please 
clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. Our Informal Merger Review Process 
Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Daniel McCracken-Hewson 
General Manager 
Merger Investigations  


 
Attachment A 
Woodside 
Woodside is a large oil and gas exploration and production company listed on the 
Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). Based in Perth, it operates primarily in 
Western Australia with global interests in Senegal, Myanmar, Canada and Timor-
Leste (among others). 
Woodside holds an interest in a number of resource projects in Australia, all of which 
are located in Western Australia. These include the: 
• 
North West Shelf (NWS) project (16.67%), Australia's largest LNG project by 
capacity. Woodside also operates the NWS project. The NWS project 
supplies WA domgas and oil, LNG, LPG and condensate to customers in 
international markets (mostly customers in the Asia Pacific region). 
• 
Wheatstone (13%) and Pluto (90%) projects which process and supply WA 
domgas and export LNG and condensate. 
• 
Scarborough (73.5%) and Browse (30.6%) prospective projects. Scarborough 
and Browse are anticipated to produce LNG for export and WA domgas. 
• 
Greater Enfield project (Ngujima-Yin FPSO) (60%), producing oil from the 
Vincent and Greater Enfield resources for export. Woodside also operates 
this project.  
BHP Petroleum 
BHP Petroleum is a wholly owned subsidiary of BHP. BHP extracts and processes 
minerals, oil and gas, primarily in Australia and the Americas. BHP Petroleum 
includes oil and gas assets in Western Australia and in the Bass Strait, as well as 
global oil and gas assets in Algeria, US Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago 
(amongst others).  
BHP Petroleum holds an interest in a number of resource projects in Australia, 
including the: 
• 
NWS (16.67%), Macedon (71.43%) and Pyrenees (71.43% in WA-42-L title 
and 40% in WA-43-L title) (oil only) projects in Western Australia. The LNG, 
LPG, condensate and oil produced from these facilities is exported.  
• 
Bass Strait project in Victoria (50% in Gippsland Basin Joint Venture and 
32.5% in Kipper Unit Joint Venture), consisting of offshore facilities, onshore 
plants and associated pipeline infrastructure. BHP Petroleum supplies oil, 
condensates and LPG from the Bass Strait to international and domestic 
customers. 
• 
Scarborough (26.5%) prospective project in Western Australia (see above).  
The proposed acquisition 
Woodside proposes to acquire 100% of the share capital of BHP Petroleum. 
Following the proposed acquisition, Woodside would be owned 52% by existing 
Woodside shareholders and 48% by existing BHP shareholders. Completion is 
expected by Q2 2022. 
Overlap 
Woodside and BHP Petroleum overlap in the supply of domestic gas in Western 
Australia (WA domgas).  Woodside and BHP Petroleum also overlap in the export of 
LNG, condensate, LPG and oil produced from assets in Australia.  
 


Attachment B 
1. Please describe your organisation and explain your interest in the proposed 
acquisition, including any commercial or competitive relationships with Woodside 
or BHP Petroleum. Please provide illustrative information, such as quantities 
transacted. 
2. Please describe how you buy, sell or otherwise deal in the goods or services 
Woodside and BHP Petroleum supply in Australia: for example, through tender or 
other methods (including contract duration). Please provide examples, including 
reference to particular supply agreements, transactions, prices or offerings. 
3. Please describe how and the extent to which Woodside and BHP Petroleum 
compete with each other in the supply of the following: 
a. WA domgas under (i) longer-term contracts and (ii) spot sales 
b. domgas processing 
(each an area of overlap). Relevant factors may include price, terms, geographic 
location of assets or scope of offerings. 
4. Please identify and describe alternative suppliers for each area of overlap. 
Please:  
a. explain how and the extent to which these suppliers compete with 
Woodside and/or BHP Petroleum in respect of each area of overlap taking 
into account factors such as price, terms or location (with reference to 
specific examples if available)  
b. comment on any suppliers you consider particularly vigorous or effective 
competitors to Woodside and/or BHP Petroleum in each area of overlap. 
5. Please describe how customers and competitors are likely to respond if a 
combined Woodside-BHP Petroleum sought to increase prices or lower service 
levels. For example, what response from competitors, if any, would a combined 
Woodside-BHP Petroleum be likely to face in each of the areas of overlap?  
6. 
Please comment on how you expect any industry developments in the next 3 to 
5 years to impact competition in the supply of each area of overlap. Consider 
factors such as the likelihood of new entry, development of resources and the 
energy transition including shifts in demand for WA domgas.  
7. 
In what way and to what extent, if any, would the proposed acquisition be likely 
to affect the incentives underlying the operation of, or providing third-party 
access to, domgas infrastructure? 
8. 
Please provide comments on whether, and if so how, the acquisition by 
Woodside of BHP Petroleum’s Australian interests which produce LNG, 
condensate, LPG and oil may impact on the supply of those products. 
9. 
Please provide any extra information or comments you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Act.  
