 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
11 June 2015 
TPG Telecom Limited – proposed acquisition of iiNet 
Limited  
Purpose 
1. 
This Statement of Issues aims to: 
 
give the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from TPG’s proposed 
acquisition of iiNet  
 
identify areas of further inquiry 
 
give all interested parties an opportunity to comment 
 
Invite interested parties to submit information to assist us in our 
assessment of the issues. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
2. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is 
in section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act). Section 50 
prohibits acquisitions that substantially lessen competition in a market, or are 
likely to do so.  
3. 
The ACCC has divided its preliminary views in this Statement of Issues into two 
categories, 'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise 
concerns’. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
 
Horizontal effects in the market for supply of retail fixed broadband 
services.  
4. 
iiNet is an important competitor in the market for supply of retail fixed broadband 
services, and has a particular focus on customer service. The ACCC’s 
preliminary view is that the acquisition of iiNet may lead to a substantial 
lessening of competition, potentially resulting in higher prices and/or degradation 
of the non-price offers available in the market, including customer service. The 


 
 
ACCC is considering these issues further, including the extent of constraints 
posed by other competitors. 
Issues unlikely to raise concerns 
 
Vertical effects in the market for supply of wholesale data transmission 
services. 
5. 
The proposed acquisition is likely to increase the extent to which TPG is 
vertically integrated, but this would be unlikely to materially alter the level of 
competition in the market for the supply of wholesale data transmission 
(wholesale transmission) services or any other relevant market. iiNet currently 
acquires wholesale transmission services (also known as backhaul) from third 
parties. If the proposed acquisition proceeds, the merged entity would likely have 
an incentive to use its own wholesale transmission network. This would reduce 
iiNet’s demand for wholesale transmission services from other third party 
transmission providers. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that this would be 
unlikely to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in any relevant market. 
 
Horizontal effects in markets relating to the supply of retail fixed voice, 
mobile voice, mobile broadband and subscription television services. 
6. 
Given the relatively limited presence of the merger parties in markets relating to 
the supply of these services, and the existence of a number of competitors, the 
ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is not likely to raise 
competition concerns for the supply of these services. However, the major 
telecommunications service providers typically offer bundling as a way of 
competing to attract customers. Therefore, concerns arising from the proposed 
acquisition in the market for the supply of retail fixed broadband services may be 
relevant to other markets. 
Making a submission 
7. 
The ACCC is seeking submissions from interested parties, particularly on the 
following key issues: 
 
The likelihood of a substantial lessening of competition in the market for 
the supply of retail fixed broadband services. 
 
The potential for the acquisition of iiNet by TPG, which is vertically 
integrated in wholesale transmission, to substantially lessen competition 
for the supply of wholesale transmission services. 
8. 
Detailed discussion of these and other issues, along with specific questions, is 
contained in this Statement of Issues.  
9. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by no later than 5pm on 2 July 
2015. Responses may be emailed to TPG-iiNet-Merger@accc.gov.au with the 
title: TPG’s proposed acquisition of iiNet.  
10. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 20 August 2015. However, this 
timeline can change. To keep abreast of possible changes to timing and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 


 
 
Confidentiality of submissions 
11. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. The 
ACCC will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with 
section 155AAA of the Act. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you may 
have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, if the information provided to the 
ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
12. 
A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
13. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the parties to the proposed acquisition and other interested parties with the basis 
for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Timeline 
Date 
Event 
2 April 2015 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines 
11 June 2015 
ACCC publication of Statement of Issues 
2 July 2015 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of 
Issues 
20 August 2015 
Proposed date for announcement of ACCC’s final 
decision  
The parties 
TPG 
14. 
TPG provides telecommunications services, including: 
 
retail fixed and mobile broadband services, using its own and other 
providers’ technologies, including asymmetric digital subscriber line 2+ 
(ADSL2+), very high bit-rate digital subscriber line 2 (VDSL2) and fibre 
 
retail fixed and mobile voice services, including fixed line, voice over 
internet protocol (VOIP) and subscriber identity module (SIM) only mobile 
plans 


 
 
 
subscription television services supplied over the internet 
 
combinations of the above as part of bundled packages 
 
wholesale transmission services. 
15. 
TPG supplies telecommunications services to residential, business and 
government customers. TPG, through its subsidiaries, also provides wholesale 
transmission services to other telecommunications service providers. 
16. 
TPG is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX:TPM). TPG 
subsidiaries include two companies with substantial wholesale transmission 
networks: AAPT and Pipe Networks. TPG already owns 6.25 per cent of iiNet. 
TPG’s brands include Soul, Chariot and TPG. 
iiNet 
17. 
iiNet provides telecommunications services, including: 
 
retail fixed and mobile broadband services (using its own and other 
providers’ technologies), including ADSL2+, VDSL2, hybrid fibre coaxial 
(HFC), cable and fibre 
 
retail fixed and mobile voice services (including fixed line, VOIP and SIM 
only mobile plans) 
 
subscription television services supplied over the internet 
 
combinations of the above as part of bundled packages 
 
some wholesale transmission services, but to a much lesser extent than 
TPG. 
18. 
iiNet supplies services to a range of customers, including residential, business 
and government customers. 
19. 
iiNet is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX:IIN). iiNet subsidiaries 
include the retail service providers Adam Internet, Westnet and Internode. 
Other industry participants 
Telstra 
20. 
Telstra is the major wholesale and retail supplier of telecommunications 
services, including fixed broadband services, in Australia. Telstra owns the near 
ubiquitous copper network used by retail service providers to supply fixed line 
telecommunication services. It also owns HFC networks in capital cities, a 
national mobile telecommunications network and 50 per cent of the subscription 
television provider, Foxtel. Telstra is the largest supplier of retail fixed broadband 
by number of subscribers in Australia. 


 
 
Optus 
21. 
Owned by the Singtel Group, Optus is a national provider of wholesale and retail 
telecommunications services, including broadband services (fixed and mobile) 
and voice services (fixed and mobile). It owns a national mobile 
telecommunications network and HFC networks in Brisbane, Sydney and 
Melbourne. It also provides wholesale transmission services. Optus is estimated 
to be the third largest supplier of retail fixed broadband by number of subscribers 
in Australia. 
M2 Telecommunications Group 
22. 
M2 Telecommunications Group (M2) is a national provider of retail and 
wholesale telecommunication services, including fixed broadband services. It 
operates through a number of subsidiaries. M2’s brands include Dodo, Eftel, 
iPrimus and Commander. M2 is the fifth largest supplier of retail fixed broadband 
by number of subscribers in Australia. 
23. 
On 27 April 2015, M2 made a rival bid for iiNet. On 6 May 2015, the iiNet board 
recommended TPG’s counterbid for iiNet to its shareholders. 
Nextgen 
24. 
Nextgen is a national telecommunications carrier which specialises in the 
provision of wholesale transmission services. It is one of the four major providers 
of wholesale transmission services, along with Telstra, Optus and TPG. 
NBN Co 
25. 
On 7 April 2009, the Australian Government of that time announced that it 
intended to establish the National Broadband Network Corporation Ltd (NBN Co) 
to build and operate a wholesale only, open access national broadband network 
(NBN).  
26. 
The current Australian Government’s objective is for NBN Co to roll out the NBN 
network using a mix of fibre-to-the-premises, fibre-to-the-node, fibre-to-the-
basement, HFC, wireless and satellite. The choice of technology will be made on 
an area-by-area basis.  
Other retail service providers 
27. 
There are a number of smaller retail service providers which generally operate 
through reselling services from wholesale service providers. 
Industry background 
Regulatory framework 
28. 
The provision of telecommunications services in Australia is regulated by, among 
other measures, Parts XIB and XIC of the Act. Part XIB contains industry specific 
prohibitions against anti-competitive conduct in the telecommunications industry, 
which are based on the general prohibitions in Part IV of the Act. 
29. 
Part XIC establishes an industry specific regime for regulated access to carriage 
services that are considered important inputs for the supply of retail services. 


 
 
The ACCC is able to declare services and regulate them by directly setting price 
and non-price terms relating to the supply of these services. 
30. 
Under this framework, the ACCC regulates a number of essential inputs to the 
provision of retail fixed broadband services over both Telstra’s copper network, 
and fibre networks including the NBN. 
Fixed broadband services 
31. 
In Australia, fixed broadband services are provided to residential and business 
customers using a range of fixed-line technologies, including ADSL2+ (provided 
over Telstra’s copper network), VDSL2 (used in fibre-to-the-basement networks), 
cable services (provided predominantly over Telstra and Optus’ HFC networks) 
and fibre services (provided over the NBN and other fibre networks).  
32. 
ADSL2+ is currently the dominant technology for the provision of residential fixed 
broadband in Australia.  
33. 
Competing providers of retail ADSL broadband services can supply these 
services in two ways: 
 
Installing digital subscriber line access multiplexer (DSLAM) equipment in 
Telstra’s exchange buildings and purchasing either an unconditioned local 
loop service or line sharing service from Telstra to deliver broadband over 
the copper line to the premises. Both of these services are regulated by the 
ACCC under Part XIC of the Act. Retail broadband providers refer to this 
approach as ‘on-net’ supply. 
 
Purchasing a wholesale ADSL service from a DSLAM operator and on-
selling this service to its retail customers. Telstra’s supply of wholesale 
ADSL services is regulated by the ACCC under Part XIC of the Act. Retail 
broadband providers refer to this approach as ‘off-net’ supply.  
34. 
Fixed broadband services in Australia are also provided over HFC networks. 
Telstra and Optus currently operate the two largest HFC networks. Optus’ 
network covers parts of Brisbane, Melbourne and Sydney while Telstra’s network 
covers parts of Brisbane, Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and the Gold 
Coast. TransACT (owned by iiNet) and Opticomm also operate smaller HFC 
networks in regional and suburban areas. Opticomm is the only HFC operator to 
offer wholesale services. 
Wholesale transmission services 
35. 
Wholesale transmission services are wholesale services that carry large 
volumes of voice, data and video traffic, often over long distances. They are 
used by telecommunications companies to carry the combined traffic of many 
separate services, and by large corporate customers with high volumes of traffic.  
36. 
Wholesale transmission services are an important input into the ability of service 
providers to provide downstream retail and wholesale telecommunications 
services. These services enable service providers to carry data between their 
points of presence where their servers and routers are located, usually in a data 
centre in a capital city, to a point where they can connect with an access network 
such as Telstra’s copper network or the NBN. 


 
 
37. 
Wholesale transmission services are necessary to carry traffic between the 121 
nationwide NBN points of interconnect and retail service providers own points of 
presence. The NBN will carry services between the end-user premises and its 
points of interconnect. 
38. 
Retail service providers will either use their own transmission network 
infrastructure for their transmission requirements or purchase transmission 
services from wholesale transmission providers. 
39. 
The domestic transmission capacity service is a declared service. The ACCC 
regulates this service only along specific geographic routes where there is 
insufficient competition—generally outside of major city centres and in regional 
areas.  
The National Broadband Network 
40. 
As indicated above, NBN Co is rolling out NBN infrastructure throughout 
Australia using a variety of technologies. NBN Co is only permitted to supply 
wholesale telecommunications services. 
41. 
NBN Co is regulated by the ACCC through a special access undertaking, which 
specifies price and non-price terms and conditions relating to access to NBN 
Co's services provided over fibre, fixed wireless and satellite networks. 
The proposed acquisition 
42. 
TPG first entered into a scheme implementation agreement with iiNet on 
13 March 2015. Under the proposed acquisition, if shareholders approve the 
scheme, TPG would acquire 100 per cent of the fully-diluted share capital in iiNet 
that TPG does not already own.  
43. 
Further details of the transaction can be found at 
http://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20150506/pdf/42ycwwjg9v44yz.pdf.  
Future with and without the acquisition  
44. 
Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
45. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the likely competition effects of the 
proposed transaction are most appropriately assessed against a future in which 
competition remains broadly as it currently stands (the status quo).   
46. 
As noted above, it is possible that in the absence of the proposed acquisition by 
TPG, another buyer (such as M2) would acquire iiNet. However, based on 
presently available information, the ACCC does not consider that any such 
alternative transaction is likely to alter its view as to the appropriate ‘future 
without’ against which to assess the proposed acquisition. 


 
 
Areas of overlap 
47. 
TPG and iiNet overlap in the supply of: 
 
retail fixed broadband services  
 
retail fixed voice services  
 
mobile services, both voice and broadband 
 
subscription television services, including internet protocol television 
(IPTV). 
Retail fixed broadband services 
48. 
The main overlap between TPG and iiNet is for the supply of retail fixed 
broadband services. This is the main focus of the ACCC’s review and is 
discussed further in the section on market definition (starting at paragraph 54), 
and in the section on issues that may raise concerns (starting at paragraph 68). 
Retail fixed voice services 
49. 
Both TPG and iiNet have a relatively small presence in the supply of retail fixed 
voice services. Telstra remains the dominant supplier of retail fixed voice 
services, with a share of 61 per cent as of June 2014. After the acquisition, TPG 
and iiNet would have a 12 per cent share, which would place it approximately 
equal with Optus as the next largest supplier.1  
Mobile services  
50. 
The supply of mobile services (both voice and broadband) is characterised by 
infrastructure based competition between the three mobile network operators – 
Telstra, Optus and Vodafone. These three companies comprise 90 per cent of 
the retail supply of mobile handset services.2 The remaining 10 per cent is 
supplied by around 50 mobile resellers, including TPG and iiNet who both 
acquire services from Optus. 
Subscription television 
51. 
There have been a number of changes in the supply of subscription television 
services over the internet during the past 12 months. In particular, the entry of 
Netflix, and a number of other on-demand content streaming services, has 
intensified competition between online content services. While certain retailer 
service providers such as iiNet and Optus previously had exclusive wholesale 
agreements to provide Fetch TV (an IPTV service which includes a number of 
linear entertainment channels and movies on demand, as well as access to 
Netflix), Fetch TV has subsequently launched a retail IPTV service which is 
available to all consumers, regardless of their broadband provider. 
                                                 
 
1 ACCC, Telecommunications competitive safeguards for 2013-14, February 2015, p.22. 
2 ACCC, Telecommunications competitive safeguards for 2013-14, February 2015, p.30. 


 
 
Conclusion on areas of overlap 
52. 
Given the relatively limited presence of the merger parties, and the existence of 
a number of competitors in the supply of retail fixed voice, mobile voice, mobile 
broadband and subscription television, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
proposed acquisition is not likely to raise significant concerns in relation to these 
areas of overlap.  
53. 
Further discussion on issues concerning the supply of fixed broadband, and the 
supply of wholesale transmission services, is provided in the following sections. 
Market definition 
54. 
On the basis of market inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
following product markets are particularly relevant in assessing the proposed 
acquisition: 
 
the supply of retail fixed broadband services  
 
the supply of wholesale transmission services.  
Retail fixed broadband services 
55. 
A fixed broadband service is a high bandwidth carriage service that can be 
characterised as an ‘always on’ connection that generally involves the carriage 
of communications to residential or business premises. 
56. 
Fixed broadband can be delivered over a number of technologies including HFC 
networks, copper networks or fibre networks. From a functional or consumer 
perspective, the services supplied over these different technologies all support 
similar downstream applications.  
57. 
For the purpose of assessing the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considers that 
the relevant retail product market includes broadband services provided over 
different fixed line technology.  
58. 
The ACCC is also not considering mobile broadband as part of this market in 
assessing this proposed acquisition as, from a functional or consumer 
perspective, the degree of substitutability between fixed and wireless broadband 
may depend on the particular downstream application. For example, mobile 
networks may not support data intensive applications such as video streaming 
as well as fixed line broadband services. There is also a substantial disparity in 
data allowances and per gigabyte pricing between mobile and fixed line 
broadband services.  
59. 
The ACCC notes that retail fixed broadband plans comprise a range of data 
allowances and prices with varying levels of customer support. For the purposes 
of this review, the ACCC considers it likely that potential competitive constraints 
on the merged entity would come from the full range of service providers in 
terms of price and quality of service. The ACCC may consider a number of 
potential constraints that operate on particular segments of the market but will 
consider the overall competitive effect on the broad market. 
60. 
The ACCC considers the appropriate geographic dimension of the market to be 
a national market. Market definition is a tool to identify and define the boundaries 


 
 
of competitive conduct between the parties to the proposed acquisition. In this 
respect it is relevant that both TPG and iiNet both provide on-net services in the 
majority of states and territories. In addition, they both provide off-net services, 
including through Telstra’s wholesale ADSL product, which is available on a 
nationwide basis.  
61. 
From a consumer perspective, the ACCC notes that residential end-users 
require fixed line services at their premises and therefore can only substitute 
between products available in their area. There may be areas in which local 
competition is present and where retail service providers operating on a national 
basis may respond to competition on a local basis.  
62. 
However, retail service providers with national brands generally compete 
nationally for end-users and adopt a national approach to setting prices and 
service levels. Additionally, the ACCC notes that business customers often have 
premises in multiple geographic locations.  
63. 
Accordingly, the ACCC considers the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition should be assessed in a national market for the supply of retail fixed 
broadband services. 
Wholesale transmission services 
64. 
Wholesale transmission services are generally provided over optical fibre and 
are usually used in combination with local access network infrastructure to 
provide end-to-end telecommunications services.  
65. 
Telstra is the only owner of a nationwide ubiquitous wholesale transmission 
network. Competition has emerged from other wholesale transmission service 
providers on particular geographic routes where it is economically efficient for 
those other service providers to invest in duplicate transmission infrastructure. 
As indicated earlier, the ACCC regulates wholesale transmission services only 
along specific geographic routes where there is insufficient competition.  
66. 
The concerns discussed in this Statement of Issues relate to nationwide 
competition between providers of wholesale transmission services. However, it is 
recognised that any concerns may be more pronounced for routes with relatively 
less competition.  
67. 
The ACCC considers that, for the purposes of this review, the appropriate 
market is a national market for the supply of wholesale transmission services.  


 
 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market(s). In particular market participants may wish to 
comment on whether: 
 
The national market for the supply of retail fixed broadband services, as identified 
above, is the appropriate definition for the market in which TPG and iiNet compete 
for fixed line broadband customers. 
 
The national market for the supply of wholesale transmission services, as identified 
above, is the appropriate definition for the market in which TPG and iiNet compete 
in the provision of wholesale transmission services. 
 
The proposed acquisition raises concerns in any other markets, such as markets 
relating to the supply of fixed and mobile voice services, or subscription television 
services. 
Issues that may raise concerns: horizontal aggregation in 
the supply of retail fixed broadband services 
68. 
The ACCC is considering whether the acquisition of iiNet may lead to a 
substantial lessening of competition in the market for the supply of retail fixed 
broadband services, potentially resulting in higher prices and/or degradation of 
the non-price offers available in this market. However, a number of competitive 
constraints have been identified and the ACCC is considering whether these are 
sufficient to prevent any substantial lessening of competition. 
Market concentration 
69. 
At present, there are five main suppliers of retail fixed broadband services – 
Telstra, Optus, iiNet, TPG and M2. In the event the proposed acquisition 
proceeds, the number of major players in this market would reduce from five to 
four. The ACCC considers that, as a general proposition, competition is stronger 
when the market contains more competitors. 
70. 
The proposed acquisition would result in an aggregation which will make TPG 
the second largest supplier of retail fixed line broadband by number of 
subscribers. At present, TPG is the fourth largest supplier in this market. 


 
 
Table 1: Retail fixed broadband market shares as at June 2014 
Service provider 
Retail market share for fixed 
broadband (DSL and cable)  
 
Telstra 
41% 
iiNet 
15% 
Optus 
14% 
TPG 
12% 
Merged entity 
27% 
M2 
8% 
Other 
10% 
Total 
100% 
Source: Based on ACCC, Telecommunications competitive safeguards for 2013-14, February 2015, 
page 16, and other information available to the ACCC. 
71. 
As shown in Table 1, Telstra would remain the largest supplier of retail fixed 
broadband services by retail market share, while the merged entity would be 
second largest, followed by Optus and then M2. 
72. 
The market for the supply of retail fixed broadband services is already relatively 
concentrated. After the acquisition, the combined market share of the four 
largest firms would be 90 per cent, with the merged entity supplying 27 per cent 
of the relevant market. 
Closeness of competition between TPG and iiNet 
73. 
In the provision of retail fixed broadband, parties offer differentiated products in 
order to compete for market share. This differentiation is based on price, data 
allowances, terms and conditions (including separate off-peak and on-peak 
allowances) and customer service experience. The degree of rivalry between 
merger parties pre-merger can be an important factor in the analysis of mergers 
in differentiated product markets, such as retail fixed broadband. In general, the 
ACCC will consider the merger parties to exert more competitive constraint on 
each other where they are close competitors. 
74. 
Market inquiries suggest that iiNet and TPG are seen to be close competitors, 
despite the two companies offering products that are differentiated. iiNet is 
perceived as having a focus on customer service as part of its strategy in 
attracting customers. Market inquiries suggest that TPG is more focused on 
price as part of a value-based product strategy. 
75. 
A number of consumers noted in submissions to the ACCC that they had 
switched their service provider from TPG to iiNet because they value iiNet’s 
perceived superior customer service. Similarly, some market participants also 
observed that low price and high service customers are not always distinct 
market segments and that many customers are prepared to substitute between 
low price and high service offers. To that end, a number of market participants 


 
 
noted that iiNet has reduced its prices in recent times to be more price 
competitive with competitors such as TPG. 
76. 
However, preliminary analysis of data (including customer switching data) by the 
ACCC indicates that while TPG and iiNet do compete closely with each other for 
customers, they are generally not each other’s closest competitors. 
Removal of a vigorous and effective competitor with a differentiated offer 
77. 
Some parties have raised concerns that the removal of iiNet may lessen the 
incentive of TPG and the other competitors to compete, given they would no 
longer face the disruption and innovation offered by iiNet as a stand-alone entity.  
78. 
The ACCC’s market inquiries suggest that TPG and iiNet are vigorous and 
effective competitors in the supply of retail fixed broadband and provide 
innovative competition to each other and to other market participants.  
79. 
Market inquiries suggest that iiNet has led a number of innovations (e.g. first to 
offer ADSL2+ and naked ADSL) and is said to provide an industry leading level 
of customer service. For example, inquiries have indicated that it offers access to 
skilled staff in 24-hour support call centres based in Australia, New Zealand and 
South Africa. iiNet has recorded market leading ‘net promoter scores’, a 
benchmark for customer satisfaction that is commonly used within the industry.  
80. 
Beyond customer service, some market participants have also singled out iiNet 
among the largest five providers for its strong consumer advocacy in an evolving 
policy environment. 
81. 
Consumers and some other interested parties are concerned that TPG will apply 
a strategy based on low prices and cost minimisation to iiNet leading to a 
degradation of iiNet’s high level of customer service. 
82. 
However, TPG has publicly indicated that it intends to keep iiNet as a separate 
brand. This suggests a dual brand strategy with:  
 
iiNet as a premium brand with a particular focus on customer service  
 
TPG as a cost-conscious brand with a particular focus on price. 
83. 
The ACCC is considering these issues further, including assessing the 
constraints that other competitors may pose on the merged entity (discussed 
below). 
Constraints from other suppliers, the threat of expansion or entry 
84. 
As part of its review, the ACCC is considering the extent of constraints that exist 
in the relevant market, and whether the merged entity would have an incentive to 
increase prices and/or reduce service levels in light of these constraints. 
85. 
The ACCC has received mixed views regarding the competitive constraints that 
exist in the relevant market. Some interested parties consider that TPG would 
continue to be constrained after the acquisition, given the presence of other 
large suppliers of retail fixed broadband services and the threat that TPG would 
lose customers to those competitors if it increased prices or reduced service 
levels.  


 
 
86. 
Other parties are concerned that TPG may not maintain, and other competitors 
would not have the ability and incentive to match or better, iiNet’s offer, including 
its standard of customer service. Further, these parties submit that iiNet 
customers would be unlikely to switch to other competitors in the event of a price 
rise or reduction in service quality. 
87. 
While some market feedback suggests that retail service providers need a large 
number of subscribers to achieve economies of scale in order to compete 
effectively, the ACCC observes that in addition to the large providers identified 
above, there remain a significant number of smaller participants providing 
differentiated competition. However, smaller providers may not have sufficient 
scale to be able to provide a strong competitive constraint on the larger players. 
88. 
If constraints from other current suppliers are insufficient in their own right to 
prevent a substantial lessening of competition arising from the proposed 
acquisition, then it is relevant to consider what further constraint arises from the 
threat of new entry.   
89. 
The ACCC observes that a feature of the retail broadband market over a number 
of years has been consolidation through acquisition, with no large scale new 
entry. However, the ACCC considers that the transition to the NBN offers some 
prospect of new entry because a wholesale-only network operator facilitates a 
more level playing field than a vertically integrated Telstra as both network 
operator and retail service provider.  
90. 
The roll out of the NBN is also expected to increase the volume of traffic that will 
be carried on wholesale transmission networks, which is likely to promote 
investment in these networks. This may assist to facilitate increased competition 
in the retail supply of fixed line broadband services. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views on the 
potential effect of the proposed acquisition on competition for the supply of retail fixed 
broadband services. Interested parties may wish to comment on the following: 
 
the extent to which iiNet is currently a close competitor to TPG 
 
the level of competitive constraint provided by Telstra, Optus, M2 and other market 
participants  
 
the extent to which customers of iiNet and TPG would switch to other providers if 
the merged firm sought to increase prices or degrade its non-price offer 
 
the likelihood of entry by fixed broadband service providers not present in the 
market and/or the likelihood of expansion from providers already present, both now 
and following the transition to the NBN 
 
the extent to which the loss of iiNet as an independent competitor is likely to 
reduce competitive tension in the market in respect of prices, innovation or quality 
of service. 
Issue unlikely to raise concerns 
Vertical effects in the market for supply of wholesale transmission services 
91. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to raise 
concerns that would result in a substantial lessening of competition in the market 
for the supply of wholesale transmission services. 


 
 
92. 
Of the five largest suppliers of retail broadband (i.e. Telstra, Optus, TPG, iiNet 
and M2), iiNet and M2 are the only retailers without their own substantial 
wholesale transmission networks. They acquire most of their transmission 
services from third party suppliers. 
93. 
Interested parties have raised concern that, after the acquisition, iiNet’s 
customers’ traffic may be carried over to TPG’s own transmission networks 
(rather than using third party suppliers’ networks to the same extent that iiNet 
does currently), thereby increasing the extent to which TPG is vertically 
integrated.  
94. 
Any reduction in iiNet’s demand for these services would in turn reduce the 
residual demand for wholesale transmission services supplied by non-integrated 
transmission service providers. Some parties have suggested that this could 
potentially make it too difficult for non-integrated wholesale transmission 
providers to reach sufficient economies of scale in order to compete effectively. 
95. 
However, the material which the ACCC has reviewed to date does not support 
the contention that the removal of iiNet as an acquirer of wholesale transmission 
services would cause so substantial a disturbance to this market as to result in a 
substantial lessening of competition within this market or any other relevant 
market. In particular, while iiNet is an important purchaser of these services, 
there will remain a significant number of other purchasers (and suppliers) even if 
iiNet reduces its demand following the proposed acquisition. Further, the ACCC 
notes that non-integrated suppliers of wholesale transmission services will have 
a strong incentive to facilitate the entry and expansion of retail fixed broadband 
providers in order to ensure that they have a strong base of customers. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants in relation to the market for 
supply of wholesale transmission services. Interested parties may wish to comment on 
how the potential reduction of iiNet’s demand for wholesale transmission services from 
non-integrated suppliers would alter the level of competition in this market or any other 
market. 
Horizontal effects in other markets 
96. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to result 
in a substantial lessening of competition in markets relating to the supply of fixed 
voice, mobile voice, mobile broadband or subscription television services.  
97. 
However, the major telecommunication service providers typically offer bundling 
as a way of competing to attract customers. Therefore, while the ACCC is 
unlikely to have concerns about the effect of the proposed acquisition on the 
supply of these products in their own right, any concerns arising in the retail fixed 
broadband market may also affect competition in these markets. 
ACCC's future steps 
98. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
99. 
As noted above, the ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions are 
to be received by the ACCC no later than 2 July 2015 and should be emailed to 
TPG-iiNet-Merger@accc.gov.au. 


 
 
100. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 20 August 2015. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
