 
Page 1 of 15 
 
 
 
Public Competition Assessment 
22 December 2015 
TPG Telecom Limited – proposed acquisition of iiNet 
Limited 
Purpose 
1. 
This Public Competition Assessment outlines reasons for the decision by the 
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) not to oppose TPG 
Telecom Limited’s (TPG) proposed acquisition of iiNet Limited (iiNet) (the 
proposed acquisition).  
2. 
ACCC public competition assessments aim to provide the public with a better 
understanding of our analysis of various markets and competition issues. We 
generally issue a public competition assessment for transactions when: 
 
an acquisition is opposed 
 
an acquisition is subject to enforceable undertakings 
 
the parties to the acquisition seek such disclosure, or 
 
an acquisition is not opposed but raises important issues that the ACCC 
considers should be made public. 
3. 
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the acquisition 
raises important issues that the ACCC considers should be made public. 
4. 
The ACCC considers each matter on a case-by-case basis. While some 
transactions may involve the same or related markets, the analysis and decision 
outlined in one assessment will not necessarily reflect the ACCC’s view about 
other transactions. 
5. 
Public competition assessments outline the ACCC’s principal reasons for 
forming views on a proposed acquisition at the time the decision was made. As 
such, public competition assessments may not definitively identify and explain all 
issues that the ACCC considers arise from an acquisition.  
6. 
Further, the ACCC’s decisions generally involve consideration of confidential 
information provided by the merger parties and market participants. In order to 
maintain the confidentiality of particular information, public competition 
assessments do not contain any confidential information nor identify its sources. 


 
Page 2 of 15 
The ACCC’s decision 
7. 
Section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the Act) is the relevant 
provision for the ACCC’s assessment.  Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that 
would have the effect, or be likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening 
competition in any market.  
8. 
On 20 August 2015, the ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the 
proposed acquisition. The ACCC decided that the proposed acquisition would be 
unlikely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in contravention 
of section 50. The ACCC considered the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition in the following markets:  
 
the market for the retail supply of fixed broadband services in Australia 
 
the market for the wholesale supply of transmission services in Australia. 
9. 
The ACCC considered that the merged entity would remain constrained by other 
major suppliers – Telstra, Optus and M2.  
10. Further details regarding the ACCC’s reasoning are provided below.  
The parties 
The acquirer: TPG 
11. TPG is a supplier of telecommunications services, including: 
 
fixed and mobile broadband services, using its own and other parties’ 
infrastructure, including asymmetric digital subscriber line 2+ (ADSL2+), 
very high bit-rate digital subscriber line 2 (VDSL2) and fibre 
 
voice services, including fixed line, voice over internet protocol (VOIP) 
and subscriber identity module (SIM) only mobile plans 
 
subscription television services supplied over the internet 
 
combinations of the above as part of bundled packages 
 
wholesale transmission services. 
12. TPG supplies telecommunications services to residential, business and 
government customers. TPG, through its subsidiaries, also provides wholesale 
transmission services to other telecommunications service providers. Its 
subsidiaries with substantial wholesale transmission networks are AAPT and 
Pipe Networks.  
13. TPG’s retail brands include Soul, Chariot and TPG. TPG is estimated to be the 
fourth largest supplier of retail fixed broadband services by number of 
subscribers in Australia. 
14. Immediately before the proposed acquisition, TPG owned 6.25 per cent of the 
shares in iiNet. TPG is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX:TPM). 


 
Page 3 of 15 
The target: iiNet 
15. iiNet supplies telecommunications services, including: 
 
broadband services (both fixed and mobile) using its own and other 
parties’ infrastructure, including ADSL2+, VDSL2, hybrid fibre coaxial 
(HFC) cable and fibre 
 
voice services, including fixed line, VOIP and SIM only mobile plans 
 
subscription television services supplied over the internet 
 
combinations of the above as part of bundled packages 
 
some wholesale transmission services, but to a much lesser extent than 
TPG. 
16. iiNet services a range of customers, including residential, business and 
government customers. iiNet’s retail brands include Adam Internet, Westnet, 
Internode and TransACT. 
17. iiNet is estimated to be the second largest supplier of retail fixed broadband 
services by number of subscribers in Australia. 
18. iiNet is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX:IIN).  
Other industry participants 
Telstra 
19. Telstra Corporation Limited (Telstra) is the major wholesale and retail supplier of 
telecommunications services in Australia, including fixed broadband services. 
Telstra owns the near ubiquitous copper network used by retail service providers 
to supply fixed line telecommunication services. It also owns HFC networks in 
capital cities, a national mobile telecommunications network and 50 per cent of 
subscription television provider Foxtel. Telstra is the largest supplier of retail 
fixed broadband services by number of subscribers in Australia. 
Optus 
20. Owned by the Singtel Group, Singtel Optus Pty Ltd (Optus) is a national supplier 
of wholesale and retail telecommunications services, including broadband 
services (fixed and mobile) and voice services (fixed and mobile). It owns a 
national mobile telecommunications network and HFC networks in Brisbane, 
Sydney and Melbourne. It also supplies wholesale transmission services. Optus 
is estimated to be the third largest supplier of retail fixed broadband services by 
number of subscribers in Australia. 
M2 Telecommunications Group 
21. M2 Telecommunications Group (M2) is a national provider of retail and 
wholesale telecommunication services, including fixed broadband services. It 
operates through a number of subsidiaries. M2’s brands include Dodo, Eftel, 
iPrimus and Commander. M2 is the fifth largest supplier of retail fixed broadband 
services by number of subscribers in Australia. 


 
Page 4 of 15 
Nextgen 
22. Nextgen is a national telecommunications carrier which specialises in the supply 
of wholesale transmission services. It is one of the four major providers of 
wholesale transmission services, along with Telstra, Optus and TPG. 
NBN Co 
23. On 7 April 2009, the Australian Government announced its intention to establish 
the National Broadband Network Corporation Ltd (NBN Co) to build and operate 
a wholesale-only, open-access national broadband network (NBN).  
24. The Australian Government’s objective since 2014 is for NBN Co to deploy the 
NBN network using a mix of fibre-to-the-premises, fibre-to-the-node, fibre-to-the-
basement, HFC, wireless and satellite. The choice of technology will be made on 
an area-by-area basis. 
Other retail service providers 
25. There are also a number of smaller retail service providers, which generally 
operate by reselling services from wholesale service providers. These include 
Exetel, AusBBS and SkyMesh. 
The proposed acquisition 
26. TPG proposes to acquire, by scheme of arrangement, 100 per cent of the fully-
diluted share capital in iiNet that it did not already own.  
Review timeline 
27. The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter. 
Date 
Event 
2 April 2015 
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Process 
Guidelines. 
23 April 2015 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. 
30 April 2015 
Closing date for submissions from interested parties. 
8 May 2015 
Former proposed decision date of 4 June 2015 delayed to give 
the merger parties more time to respond to the ACCC’s 
information request. 
11 May 2015 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
11 June 2015 
ACCC published a Statement of Issues outlining preliminary 
competition concerns. 
2 July 2015 
Closing date for submissions relating to Statement of Issues. 
8 July 2015 
ACCC requested further information from the merger parties. 


 
Page 5 of 15 
Date 
Event 
24 July 2015 
ACCC received further information from the merger parties. 
20 August 2015 
ACCC announced it would not oppose the acquisition. 
Market inquiries 
28. The ACCC conducted extensive market inquiries with a range of industry 
participants, including consumers, consumer representatives and competing 
internet service providers. On 14 July 2015, the ACCC held a market inquires 
forum, which provided consumers and other interested parties the opportunity to 
express their views on the proposed acquisition directly to the ACCC. 
29. The ACCC also examined internal company documents and data obtained from 
the merger parties. 
Statement of Issues 
30. The ACCC published a Statement of Issues on 11 June 2015. In the Statement 
of Issues the ACCC expressed the preliminary view that the proposed 
acquisition may lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the market for 
the supply of retail fixed broadband services in Australia. In this context, the 
ACCC was considering whether the proposed acquisition would be likely to 
result in higher prices and/or degradation of the non-price offers available in the 
market. In the Statement of Issues, the ACCC considered the competitive 
constraints from other existing suppliers and the potential for these to be 
sufficient to prevent any substantial lessening of competition. 
31. The ACCC also expressed the preliminary view that the proposed acquisition 
was unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in other markets 
relating to the supply of fixed broadband services, including in the market for the 
supply of wholesale transmission services.  
Future with and without the proposed acquisition 
32. Section 50 of the Act prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect or be likely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. In assessing 
a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC considers 
the likely effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely future 
competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the “without” 
position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to substantially 
lessen competition in any relevant market. In this matter, the ACCC assessed 
the acquisition against a future without the acquisition in which competition 
remains broadly as it currently stands (the status quo).  
Industry background 
Regulatory framework 
33. The supply of telecommunications services in Australia is regulated by Parts XIB 
and XIC of the Act. Part XIB contains industry-specific prohibitions, including 


 
Page 6 of 15 
against anti-competitive conduct in the telecommunications industry, which are 
based on the general prohibitions in Part IV of the Act. 
34. Part XIC establishes an industry-specific regime for regulated access to carriage 
services that are considered important inputs for the supply of retail services. 
The ACCC is able to declare services and regulate them by directly setting price 
and non-price terms relating to the supply of these services. 
35. Under this framework, the ACCC regulates a number of essential inputs to the 
provision of retail fixed broadband services over both Telstra’s copper network, 
and fibre networks including the NBN. 
Fixed broadband services 
36. In Australia, fixed broadband services are supplied to residential and business 
customers using a range of fixed-line technologies, including ADSL2+ (provided 
over Telstra’s copper network), VDSL2 (used in fibre-to-the-basement networks), 
cable services (provided predominantly over Telstra and Optus’ HFC networks) 
and fibre services (provided over the NBN and other fibre networks).  
37. ADSL2+ is currently the dominant technology for the supply of residential fixed 
broadband in Australia.  
38. Competing providers of retail ADSL broadband services can supply these 
services in two ways: 
 
Installing digital subscriber line access multiplexer (DSLAM) equipment 
in Telstra’s exchange buildings and purchasing either an unconditioned 
local loop service or a line sharing service from Telstra to deliver 
broadband over the copper line to the premises. Both of these services 
are regulated by the ACCC under Part XIC of the Act. Retail broadband 
providers refer to this approach as ‘on-net’ supply. 
 
Purchasing a wholesale ADSL service from a DSLAM operator and on-
selling this service to its retail customers. Telstra’s supply of wholesale 
ADSL services is regulated by the ACCC under Part XIC of the Act. 
Retail broadband providers refer to this approach as ‘off-net’ supply.  
39. Fixed broadband services in Australia are also supplied over HFC networks. 
Telstra and Optus currently operate the two largest HFC networks. Telstra’s 
network covers parts of Brisbane, Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and the 
Gold Coast while Optus’ network covers parts of Brisbane, Melbourne and 
Sydney. TransACT (owned by iiNet) and Opticomm also operate smaller HFC 
networks in regional and suburban areas. Opticomm is the only HFC operator to 
offer wholesale services. 
Wholesale transmission services 
40. Wholesale transmission services (often referred to in the industry as backhaul) 
are wholesale services that carry large volumes of voice, data and video traffic, 
often over long distances. They are used by retail suppliers to carry the 
combined traffic of many separate services, and by large corporate customers 
with high volumes of traffic.  


 
Page 7 of 15 
41. Wholesale transmission services are an important input into the ability of service 
providers to supply downstream retail and wholesale telecommunications 
services. These services enable service providers to carry data between their 
points of presence where their servers and routers are located (usually in a data 
centre in a capital city) to a point where they can connect with a local access 
network such as Telstra’s copper network or the NBN. 
42. Wholesale transmission services are necessary to carry traffic between the 
121 nationwide NBN points of interconnect and retail service providers’ own 
points of presence. The NBN will carry services between the end-user premises 
and its points of interconnect. 
43. Retail service providers either use their own transmission network infrastructure 
for their transmission requirements or purchase transmission services from 
wholesale transmission suppliers. 
44. The domestic transmission capacity service is a declared service. The ACCC 
regulates this service only along specific geographic routes where there is 
insufficient competition—generally outside of major city centres and in regional 
areas.  
The National Broadband Network 
45. As indicated above, NBN Co is deploying the NBN infrastructure throughout 
Australia using a variety of technologies. NBN Co is only permitted to supply 
wholesale telecommunications services. 
46. The ACCC regulates NBN Co through a special access undertaking, which 
specifies price and non-price terms and conditions relating to access to 
NBN Co's services provided over fibre, fixed wireless and satellite networks. 
Areas of overlap 
47. TPG and iiNet overlap in the supply of: 
 
fixed services (voice and broadband) 
 
mobile services (voice and broadband) 
 
subscription television services over the internet 
 
combinations of the above as part of broader offers or bundled packages. 
Fixed services 
48. The main overlap between TPG and iiNet is for the supply of retail fixed 
broadband services, including bundled offers. This was the main focus of the 
ACCC’s review and is discussed further in the sections on market definition 
(starting at paragraph 55), and competition assessment (starting at paragraph 
73). 
49. Both TPG and iiNet have a relatively small presence in the supply of retail fixed 
voice services. Telstra remains the largest supplier of retail fixed voice services, 
with a share of 61 per cent as of June 2014. After the acquisition, TPG would 


 
Page 8 of 15 
have a 12 per cent share, which would place it approximately equal with Optus 
as the next largest supplier.1  
Mobile services  
50. The supply of mobile services (both voice and broadband) is characterised by 
infrastructure based competition between the three mobile network operators – 
Telstra, Optus and Vodafone. These three companies comprise 90 per cent of 
the retail supply of mobile handset services.2 The remaining 10 per cent is 
supplied by around 50 mobile resellers, including TPG and iiNet who both 
acquire services from Optus. 
Subscription television 
51. The major telecommunications service providers and some other suppliers offer 
subscription television services over the internet (internet protocol television – 
IPTV). During 2014 and 2015 there have been a number of changes in the 
supply of subscription television services. In particular, the entry of Netflix, and a 
number of other on-demand content streaming services, has intensified 
competition between online content services.  
52. While certain retail service providers such as iiNet and Optus previously had 
exclusive wholesale agreements to provide Fetch TV (an IPTV service which 
includes a number of linear entertainment channels and movies on demand, as 
well as access to Netflix), Fetch TV has subsequently launched a retail IPTV 
service which is available to all consumers, regardless of their broadband 
provider. 
Bundled offers 
53. The services identified above may be offered as part of a bundle or 
independently. For instance, many telecommunications providers offer fixed 
voice and fixed broadband services together in a bundle, or separately. As 
discussed below, the ACCC has defined fixed broadband as a separate product 
market. The ACCC was satisfied that any concerns relating to the supply of fixed 
broadband would also highlight concerns in other areas of overlap, to the extent 
relevant. 
Conclusion on areas of overlap 
54. Given the relatively limited presence of the merger parties and/or the existence 
of a number of competitors in the supply of voice services (fixed and mobile), 
mobile broadband and subscription television, the ACCC decided that the 
proposed acquisition was not likely to raise significant concerns in relation to 
these areas of overlap. Therefore, these are not considered further in this Public 
Competition Assessment. 
                                                 
1 ACCC, Telecommunications competitive safeguards for 2013-14, February 2015, p. 22. 
2 ACCC, Telecommunications competitive safeguards for 2013-14, February 2015, p. 30. 


 
Page 9 of 15 
Market definition 
55. Market definition is a tool to identify the boundaries of competitive conduct 
between the merger parties and their rivals. Market definition is purposive, and it 
depends on the specific facts and circumstances of a merger. In this case, the 
ACCC assessed the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition in the 
context of: 
 
the market for the retail supply of fixed broadband services in Australia 
 
the market for the wholesale supply of transmission services in Australia. 
56. These markets are consistent with those outlined in the Statement of Issues. 
Retail supply of fixed broadband services 
Product dimension of the market 
57. A fixed broadband service is a high bandwidth carriage service that can be 
characterised as an ‘always on’ connection that generally involves the carriage 
of communications to residential or business premises. 
58. Fixed broadband can be delivered over a number of network technologies 
including copper, HFC and fibre. From a functional or consumer perspective, the 
services supplied over these different technologies all support similar 
downstream applications.  
Fixed line versus mobile 
59. Mobile network operators and mobile service resellers also offer customers 
access to the internet, which may be received by mobile devices such as mobile 
phones, tablets, laptops or USB attachments (e.g. dongles). These products may 
be offered as part of a bundle with other telecommunications services. 
60. The ACCC did not consider mobile broadband to be in the same market as fixed 
broadband in assessing this acquisition. From a functional or consumer 
perspective, the degree of substitutability between mobile and fixed broadband 
depends on the particular downstream application, consumer preferences and 
usage patterns. 
61. The ACCC found that there are different characteristics between mobile and 
fixed broadband, including price, data allowances and usage limitations. These 
differences are demonstrated by the fact that 93 per cent of data downloaded by 
Australian consumers is through a fixed broadband connection.3  
62. There is a general trend towards greater use of mobile data. However, if there 
were a small but significant (5-10 per cent) increase in the price of fixed 
broadband, the ACCC considered it unlikely that enough customers would switch 
to mobile broadband for these services to be viewed as sufficiently close 
substitutes. This is because of the functional differences between the two 
services. Moreover, where mobile broadband is priced significantly above fixed 
broadband, it seems unlikely that enough switching would occur. The ACCC 
                                                 
3 ACCC, Telecommunications competitive safeguards for 2013-14, February 2015, p. 17. 


 
Page 10 of 15 
therefore assessed the proposed acquisition on the basis of a market for the 
supply of fixed broadband, excluding mobile broadband. 
63. For the purpose of assessing the proposed acquisition, the ACCC considered 
that the fixed broadband market included broadband services provided over 
different fixed line technologies such as copper and fibre. 
Geographic dimension of the market 
64. As discussed earlier, market definition is purposive, and it depends on the 
specific facts and circumstances of a merger. In this respect it is relevant that 
both TPG and iiNet provide on-net services in the majority of states and 
territories. In addition, they both also provide off-net services, including through 
Telstra’s wholesale ADSL product, which is available in metropolitan, regional 
and some rural areas.  
65. From a consumer perspective, the ACCC noted that those residential end-users 
that require fixed line services at their premises can only substitute between 
products available in their area. There may be areas in which local competition is 
present and where retail service providers operating on a national basis may 
respond to competition on a local basis.  
66. However, retail service providers with national brands generally compete 
nationally for end-users and adopt a national approach to setting prices and 
service levels. Additionally, the ACCC noted that business customers often have 
premises in multiple geographic locations.  
67. In this case, both the merger parties compete on a national basis. Therefore, the 
ACCC considered it was appropriate to analyse the competitive effects of the 
proposed acquisition in the national market for the supply of retail fixed 
broadband services. The ACCC noted that within this market, suppliers have 
different geographic strengths and varying degrees of overlap. 
Wholesale supply of transmission services 
68. Consistent with its preliminary view in the Statement of Issues, the ACCC 
considered that for the purposes of this review it was relevant to assess 
competition for the wholesale supply of transmission services in Australia.  
69. Wholesale transmission services are generally provided over optical fibre and 
are usually used in combination with local access network infrastructure to 
provide end-to-end telecommunications services.  
70. Telstra is the only owner of a nationwide ubiquitous wholesale transmission 
network. Competition has emerged from other wholesale transmission service 
providers on particular geographic routes where it is economically efficient for 
those other service providers to invest in duplicate transmission infrastructure. 
As indicated earlier, the ACCC regulates wholesale transmission services only 
along specific geographic routes where there is insufficient competition.  
71. The ACCC noted that the concerns raised by some interested parties in respect 
of wholesale transmission were in the context of competition between national 
wholesale providers of transmission services. However, the ACCC also noted 


 
Page 11 of 15 
that concerns may be more pronounced on routes where there is less 
competition. 
Functional levels of the supply chain 
72. The ACCC noted that there are different functional levels of the supply chain in 
the telecommunications industry. Some parties are vertically integrated in both 
wholesale and retail (at least to some extent), while others are not. The ACCC 
considered that the competition analysis in this matter was best conducted with 
reference to separate but related markets (as detailed above), with each market 
comprising a different stage of the supply chain.  
Competition analysis 
Horizontal effects in the retail fixed broadband market 
73. The ACCC considered whether the acquisition of iiNet as an independent 
competitor would be likely to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the 
market for the supply of retail fixed broadband services. The ACCC examined 
the potential for a loss of competitive tension in respect of prices, innovation 
and/or quality of service in this market. 
Market concentration 
74. Prior to the proposed acquisition there were five major suppliers of fixed 
broadband services – Telstra, Optus, iiNet, TPG and M2. The proposed 
acquisition would reduce the number of major suppliers from five to four. 
75. As shown in Table 1, following the proposed acquisition, the merged entity would 
be the second largest supplier of fixed broadband with a market share of 27 per 
cent based on the number of subscribers. Telstra would remain the largest 
provider, supplying 41 per cent of the market. 
Table 1: Retail fixed broadband market shares as at June 2014 
Service provider 
Retail share (per cent) for fixed broadband (DSL and cable) 
Without proposed acquisition 
With proposed acquisition 
Telstra 
41 
41 
iiNet 
15 
- 
Optus 
14 
14 
TPG 
12 
27 
M2 
8 
8 
Other 
10 
10 
Total 
100 
100 
Source: Based on ACCC, Telecommunications competitive safeguards for 2013-14, February 2015, 
page 23, and other information available to the ACCC. 


 
Page 12 of 15 
76. After the proposed acquisition, the combined share of the four largest firms in 
this market would be around 90 per cent. The ACCC’s views on competition in 
the market, given this level of concentration, are set out below.  
Closeness of competition between broadband suppliers 
77. TPG and iiNet are two of five major broadband suppliers who all compete with 
each other, but often with a particular focus on certain aspects by differentiating 
their offers. 
78. TPG has a particular focus on price. It competes more closely with other low 
price broadband suppliers, such as M2 with its budget Dodo brand, while iiNet 
has a particular focus on service and competes closely with other perceived 
premium brands such as Telstra and Optus. That said, there was evidence 
available to the ACCC of broadband suppliers seeking to change their offers 
over time in targeting rivals or niches in the market. 
79. Information available to the ACCC also suggested that customers make trade-
offs between the differentiated offers available. Submissions from interested 
parties discussed customers switching from TPG to iiNet in search of a higher 
level of customer service, or switching from iiNet to TPG for a low cost option. 
Similarly, there was evidence of customers switching between TPG, iiNet and 
other providers to access the price and service combination that best meets their 
needs. 
Threat of entry or expansion 
80. In considering the issue of entry or expansion, the ACCC made the following 
observations based on information obtained during the review: 
 
A feature of the fixed broadband market over a number of years has 
been consolidation through acquisition, with no large-scale new entry or 
significant organic growth. 
 
Existing suppliers enjoy advantages over new entrants, including 
economies of scale, economies of scope and established brands which 
present barriers to entry for new entrants. Smaller suppliers wishing to 
expand face similar barriers. 
 
Access to wholesale infrastructure on competitive terms is an important 
component of being able to compete effectively at the retail level. The 
transition to the NBN offers some prospect of new entry because a 
wholesale-only network operator better enables retail service providers to 
compete on their merits against Telstra and each other. In contrast, in the 
pre-NBN environment many retail service providers rely on access to 
Telstra’s network to compete against Telstra in downstream retail 
markets. 
 
The deployment of the NBN is expected to increase the volume of traffic 
that will be carried on wholesale transmission networks, which is likely to 
promote use of and investment in these networks. This may assist 
competition in the retail supply of fixed broadband services. New entrants 
on a small scale can provide additional consumer choice even if they do 
not reach the mass market. 


 
Page 13 of 15 
 
There are already a number of small players that provide varying degrees 
of constraint, and there are reports of possible new entrants such as 
Woolworths, Coles and MyRepublic. 
 
However, the barriers to entry or expansion mentioned above limit the 
prospect of large-scale new entry or expansion that would constrain TPG 
and/or the other major suppliers of fixed broadband in the foreseeable 
future. 
81. The ACCC did not consider that the threat of new entry, or expansion by existing 
small players, was sufficient in its own right to constrain the merged entity. 
However, given that it considered there were sufficient constraints posed by 
other existing major broadband suppliers, the ACCC did not consider it 
necessary to rely on the threat of entry or expansion as a key constraint.  
Removal of a vigorous and effective competitor 
82. The ACCC had regard to the competitive influence of iiNet in the relevant 
market. The ACCC found that although iiNet is a vigorous and effective 
competitor, the acquisition would not fundamentally alter the incentives of other 
market participants, including the merged firm, to innovate or act as disruptors in 
the market. 
83. iiNet’s competitive influence is particularly strong on product innovation and 
customer service. For example, iiNet was the first to offer naked ADSL. It also 
has a strong reputation amongst consumers for delivering high standards of 
customer service. 
84. iiNet also competes on price but there are other major competitors who deliver 
particularly strong price-based competition such as M2, with its Dodo brand, and 
TPG. Telstra also competes on price through its relatively new Belong brand. 
The ACCC considered whether TPG and other providers would retain an 
incentive to engage in vigorous price and non-price based competition. This is 
discussed below. 
Competition from other broadband suppliers and constraint on TPG after the 
proposed acquisition 
85. The ACCC considered the extent of competitive constraints imposed by other 
suppliers in the relevant market and whether TPG would have an incentive to 
increase prices or downgrade iiNet’s differentiated offer following the proposed 
acquisition. The ACCC received mixed views from interested parties regarding 
these constraints.  
86. Some interested parties considered that TPG would continue to be constrained 
after the acquisition, given existing competition in the market and the continued 
presence of other large suppliers of retail fixed broadband services, and the 
threat that TPG would lose customers to those competitors if it increased prices 
or reduced service levels.  
87. Other interested parties were concerned that TPG may not maintain, and other 
competitors would not have the ability and incentive to match or better, iiNet’s 
offer (including its high standard of customer service) after the acquisition. 


 
Page 14 of 15 
88. Much of the value of the proposed acquisition for TPG appeared to be in the 
opportunity to acquire and supply iiNet’s large customer base. These customers 
in general were attracted to iiNet by its particular combination of price and 
service. TPG would only have an incentive to degrade this offer if it could be 
confident that substantial numbers of customers would not be lost to other 
competitors. 
89. During the course of the review, the ACCC examined diversion ratios that 
applied to the merger parties and customer switching behaviour. The internal 
company documents of the merger parties provided insight into how TPG and 
iiNet formulated their offers and, in particular, which other suppliers each saw as 
a competitive threat. 
90. This information indicated that the merged entity would continue to be 
competitively constrained by the other major broadband suppliers, Telstra, Optus 
and M2. In the event that TPG sought to materially decrease service levels or 
raise prices post-acquisition, it would risk substantial losses of customers to rival 
suppliers of fixed broadband services that would be likely to make any such 
action unprofitable.  
91. The ACCC’s inquiries also revealed that small competitors can be disruptive on 
certain aspects of the competitive process such as service, but are limited in 
geographic reach and do not enjoy the same economies of scale and scope as 
large incumbents.  
92. Given large incumbents have a national presence and are in a better position to 
bundle fixed broadband services with other services, the ACCC placed more 
weight on them as being capable of constraining the merged entity. 
Conclusion: retail fixed broadband market 
93. The ACCC concluded that: 
 
TPG and iiNet are competitors in the national market for the retail supply 
of fixed broadband services. The proposed acquisition would eliminate 
competition between them – leading to a lessening of competition in the 
relevant market. 
 
However, the merged entity would remain constrained by other major 
suppliers – Telstra, Optus and M2.  
 
In this context, if TPG downgraded service standards or increased prices 
after the proposed acquisition, it would be likely to lose substantial 
numbers of customers to the other major suppliers such that any such 
actions would be likely to be unprofitable. 
 
Therefore the ACCC concluded that, while the proposed acquisition 
would lessen competition, it was not likely to lead to a substantial 
lessening of competition in the retail fixed broadband market. 
94. Notwithstanding its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition, the ACCC 
noted the growing consolidation in what will now become a relatively 
concentrated broadband market. Any future proposed merger between two of 
the remaining four large suppliers of retail fixed broadband services will face very 
close scrutiny.  


 
Page 15 of 15 
Vertical effects in the wholesale transmission market  
95. The ACCC considered the vertical effects of the acquisition in the market for the 
supply of wholesale transmission services.  
96. Of the five largest suppliers of retail broadband, iiNet and M2 are the only 
retailers without their own substantial wholesale transmission networks. They 
acquire most of their transmission services from third party suppliers. These 
include their vertically integrated rivals (Telstra, Optus and TPG) and other non-
integrated transmission suppliers such as Nextgen. 
97. During the ACCC’s review, some parties raised concern that iiNet would no 
longer acquire wholesale transmission services from suppliers other than TPG 
and this would threaten the commercial viability of non-vertically integrated 
wholesale transmission providers. 
98. Some parties also expressed concern that this would have consequences for 
competition in downstream markets, with retail broadband suppliers being forced 
to rely on their vertically integrated competitors for wholesale transmission 
services. 
99. On the basis of the information available, the ACCC concluded that the 
acquisition would be unlikely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in 
the wholesale transmission market or any other market. 
100. The ACCC considered that a number of purchasers (and suppliers) of wholesale 
transmission services would remain, even if iiNet reduced its demand from non-
vertically integrated transmission suppliers following the proposed acquisition.  
101. Given that most of the major transmission suppliers are vertically integrated, 
non-integrated suppliers are important to competition in wholesale transmission. 
They help facilitate retail competition, including by lowering barriers to retail entry 
and expansion. Accordingly, the ACCC would be concerned about any future 
acquisition by one of the large four retail service providers that would remove an 
important independent supplier. 
Conclusion 
102. Based on the above analysis, the ACCC concluded that the acquisition of iiNet 
by TPG would not be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition in any market. 
