Public Competition Assessment
14 March 2007
Mater Misericordiae Hospital - proposed acquisition of the Wesley
Hospital, Townsville
Introduction
1.
On 7 March 2007, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
(ACCC) announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition of The
Wesley Hospital by the Mater Misericordiae Hospital (proposed acquisition).
The ACCC was of the view that the proposed acquisition would be unlikely to
have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the markets for the
supply of private hospital services to health funds and the Repatriation
Commission/Department of Veterans’ Affairs (DVA) and to patients in the
Townsville and surrounding region in contravention of section 50 of the Trade
Practices Act 1974 (the Act).
2.
The ACCC formed its view on the basis of the information provided by the
merger parties and information arising from its market inquiries. This Public
Competition Assessment outlines the basis on which the ACCC has reached its
decision on the proposed acquisition, subject to confidentiality considerations.
Public Competition Assessment
3.
To provide an enhanced level of transparency and procedural fairness in its
decision making process, the ACCC issues a Public Competition Assessment for
all transaction proposals where:
a merger is rejected;
a merger is subject to enforceable undertakings;
the merger parties seek such disclosure; or
a merger is approved but raises important issues that the ACCC considers
should be made public.
4.
This Public Competition Assessment has been issued because the Mater
Misericordiae Hospital’s proposed acquisition of the Wesley Hospital is
considered to raise issues of interest to the public.


Mater Misericordiae Hospital - proposed acquisition of The Wesley Hospital
-2-
5.
By issuing Public Competition Assessments, the ACCC aims to provide the
market with a better understanding of the ACCC's analysis of various markets
and the associated merger and competition issues. It also alerts the market to the
circumstances where the ACCC’s assessment of the competition conditions in
particular markets is changing, or likely to change, because of developments.
6.
Each Public Competition Assessment is specific to the particular transaction
under review by the ACCC. While some transaction proposals may involve the
same or related markets, it should not be assumed that the analysis and decision
outlined in one Public Competition Assessment will be conclusive of the ACCC’s
view in respect of other transaction proposals, as each matter will be considered
on its own merits.
7.
Many of the ACCC’s decisions will involve consideration of both non-
confidential and confidential information provided by the merger parties and
market participants. In order to maintain the confidentiality of particular
information, Public Competition Assessments do not contain any confidential
information or its sources. While the ACCC aims to provide an appropriately
detailed explanation of the basis for the ACCC decision, where this is not
possible, maintaining confidentiality will be the ACCC's paramount concern, and
accordingly a Public Competition Assessment may not definitively explain all
issues and the ACCC’s analysis of such issues.
The parties
The acquirer: Mater Misericordiae Hospital (Mater)
8.
The Mater is a 165 bed, acute care facility, owned and operated by the
Townsville Congregation of the Sisters of Mercy. The Mater is a major referral
hospital offering a range of medical and surgical services including oncology,
urology, gastroenterology, gynaecology and obstetrics, orthopaedic and
ophthalmology among others. The Mater also offers acute care services such as
intensive care, coronary care and cardiac surgical services.
The target: The Wesley Hospital (Wesley)
9.
The Wesley is an 80 bed acute medical surgical hospital owned by Uniting
Church in Australia Property Trust (Qld) (Uniting Church), a group of six not-
for-profit hospitals formed in 2001. The Wesley offers a range of services
including:
a 34 bed medical /surgical unit catering for orthopaedics, plastics, general
surgery and urology;
a women's unit offering IVF services, gynaecology, and obstetrics for
antenatal classes, birth and postnatal care (5 level 2 nursing cots); and
a 14 bed day surgery unit and endoscopy suite.


Mater Misericordiae Hospital - proposed acquisition of The Wesley Hospital
-3-
Market background
10.
The ACCC understands that the population of Townsville is approximately
160 000 and it is currently growing at an annual rate of around 2.5%.
11.
There are currently only two private hospitals in Townsville; the Mater and the
Wesley. There is also the public Townsville Hospital operated by Queensland
Health, and two day surgeries located in metropolitan Townsville – Townsville
Day Surgery and North Queensland Day Surgical Unit.
12.
Post-acquisition, there will be two overnight hospitals in the city of Townsville –
the public Townsville Hospital and the merged hospital (which will operate
across two campuses).
The proposed transaction
13.
On 9 January 2007, the Mater announced its proposal to acquire the Wesley and
sought informal clearance from the ACCC. The proposed acquisition has not yet
been completed and is subject to ACCC approval.
14.
The sale agreement provides that the Mater will acquire the Wesley as a going
concern.
Areas of overlap
15.
The Mater and the Wesley each offer a range of different hospital services, with a
number of these services provided by both private hospitals. The main specialties
where there is some overlap between the hospitals include:
Obstetrics and Gynaecology;
Orthopaedics;
General surgery;
Oncology;
Urology; and
Paediatrics.


Mater Misericordiae Hospital - proposed acquisition of The Wesley Hospital
-4-
Timing
16.
The following table outlines the timeline of key events in this matter.
Date
Event
09-Jan-2007
24-Jan-2007
07-Feb-2007
16-Feb-2007
07-Mar-2007
ACCC commenced review under the Merger Review Process Guidelines.
Market inquiries commenced
Closing date for submissions from interested parties
Timeline extended due to the need to conduct further market inquiries.
Further market inquiries commenced
Closing date for submissions from interested parties in response
to further market inquiries
ACCC announced its decision not to oppose the proposed acquisition
Initial market inquiries
17.
Initial market inquiries commenced on 9 January 2007. The ACCC conducted an
initial round of market inquiries with a range of industry participants, including
health funds, public and private hospital operators, day surgeries, industry bodies,
doctors (specialists) and other interested parties. Submissions were sought in
relation to the substantive competition issues.
Further market inquiries
18.
Further market inquiries commenced on 7 February 2007. The ACCC conducted
further extensive market inquiries with a range of industry participants; in
particular doctors (specialists), and other interested parties.
19.
More specifically, submissions were sought in relation to:
Extent of competition between the Mater and the Wesley in specialties where
the hospitals overlap;
Potential competition between the Mater and the Wesley in non-overlap
specialties;
Extent of competition between the Mater and the Wesley for doctors, which
may lead to better outcomes for patients; and
Impact of the proposed acquisition on prices to uninsured patients.
With/without test (Counterfactual)
20.
In assessing a merger pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC must consider
the effects of the transaction by comparing the likely competitive environment
post-merger if the transaction proceeds (the “with” position) to the likely
competitive environment post-merger if the transaction does not proceed (the
“without” position or “counterfactual”).
21.
Market inquiries revealed a widespread view in the market that the Wesley has
been declining in terms of occupancy rates, standard of facilities, and financial
viability for several years. Following discussions with market participants and
examination of confidential documents provided by the merger parties, the


Mater Misericordiae Hospital - proposed acquisition of The Wesley Hospital
-5-
ACCC formed the view that in the absence of the merger, the Wesley is not likely
to continue operating in its present form and will not be a vigorous and effective
competitor to the Mater in future.
22.
Market participants also noted the Mater’s advanced plans for a redevelopment,
which would add 60 beds to its existing capacity, if the proposed acquisition does
not proceed, with most considering that this would exacerbate the Wesley’s
difficulties.
Market definition
23.
The ACCC considers that the following broad markets are relevant to the
assessment of this proposed acquisition:
(a) Market one – The Townsville and surrounding region market for the supply
of private hospital services to health funds and the DVA; and
(b) Market two – The Townsville and surrounding region market for the supply
of private hospital services to patients (with doctors acting as agents).
24.
The ACCC notes that although some market participants indicated that for certain
specialties, the geographic market may be broader than Townsville and the
surrounding region, this appears to apply to only a small minority of specialties
and patients, and the degree of substitutability does not appear to be sufficiently
strong to justify a broader geographic market for private hospital services.
Market One - The Townsville and surrounding region market for the supply of
private hospital services to health funds and the DVA
Competition analysis
25.
Health funds negotiate Hospital Purchaser Provider Agreements (HPPAs) with
hospitals to set the rates their members pay for services.1 Effectively, members of
individual health funds are collectively negotiating with hospitals, with the health
fund acting as an agent. The DVA enters into arrangements similar to HPPAs
with private hospitals for the provision of hospital care to veterans and entitled
persons. Health funds also fully or partially pay the price they negotiate with
hospitals and receive premiums from their members in return (in this way, the
costs of treating illness and injury are spread across a health fund’s membership).
The DVA enters into arrangements similar to HPPAs with private hospitals for
the provision of hospital care to veterans and entitled persons.
26.
In making this assessment, the ACCC took into account the counterfactual
referred to above (i.e. likely extent of future competition between the hospitals in
the absence of the merger).
1 The Veterans’ Entitlement Act 1986 (Cth) and the Military Rehabilitation & Compensation Act 2004
(Cth) empower the Repatriation Commission of the Department of Veterans’ Affairs to enter into
arrangements similar to HPPAs with private hospitals for the provision of hospital care to veterans and
entitled persons.


Mater Misericordiae Hospital - proposed acquisition of The Wesley Hospital
-6-
Countervailing power of health funds
27.
The ACCC considered, among other things, whether any increased bargaining
power would be held by the merged hospital post-acquisition relative to the
countervailing power currently held by the health funds and the DVA in HPPA
negotiations.
28.
Some market participants expressed the view that the proposed acquisition may
lead to a small increase in bargaining power of the merged hospital in its
negotiations with some health funds, but generally considered that this would be
due to the improved level and range of services available at the merged hospital
rather than a lessening of competition in the relevant market. Further, some
health funds did not appear to consider the Mater and the Wesley to be close
competitors for the purpose of HPPA negotiations.
Portfolio effects as a result of the proposed acquisition
29.
During its investigation, the ACCC examined whether there would be any
portfolio effects as a result of the proposed acquisition; that is, any increased
ability of a group of private hospitals to use their collective bargaining strength
(where they have a number of private hospitals in their network) in their
negotiations with health funds and the DVA to extract higher prices.
Fundamental to the discussion of the portfolio effect is the level of bargaining
power held by the relevant private hospital group when compared to that of the
health funds and the DVA.
30.
Market inquiries indicated that it is unlikely that there would be any significant
portfolio effects as a result of the proposed acquisition of the Wesley by the
Mater. Although the Mater is a member of the Catholic Negotiating Alliance
(CNA), the ACCC understands that the hospital typically acts autonomously and
negotiates prices independently of the CNA (and only some terms and conditions
as a group). In any case, the Mater’s portfolio post-acquisition will be small
relative to other private hospital groups.
Ability to influence the range and service level at hospitals
31.
Market inquiries confirmed health funds and the DVA have limited ability to
influence the range and service level at the hospitals, beyond ensuring that at least
a certain standard is met (the minimum threshold is determined by HPPA
contracts and the relevant legislation). This appears unlikely to be affected by the
proposed acquisition.
Market One - Conclusion
32.
The ACCC concluded that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to result in a
substantial lessening of competition in the Townsville and surrounding region
market for the supply of private hospital services to health funds and the DVA,
particularly given the counterfactual identified in paragraph 21.


Mater Misericordiae Hospital - proposed acquisition of The Wesley Hospital
-7-
Market Two – The Townsville and surrounding region market for the supply of
private hospital services to patients (with doctors acting as agents)
Competition analysis
33.
In conducting this assessment, the ACCC took into account the counterfactual
(i.e. likely extent of future competition between the hospitals in the absence of
the merger) discussed in paragraph 21.
Extent of competition between the Mater and the Wesley in specialties where the
hospitals overlap
34.
With some exceptions, the Mater and the Wesley do not currently compete
vigorously in most specialties.
35.
In those specialties were the merger parties do overlap, market inquiries indicated
that the main area of competitive concern was in obstetrics and gynaecology.
Market participants considered that the Mater and the Wesley both currently
provide these services to a high standard, and in comparable numbers. Similar
concerns were also raised in respect to the provision of neo-natal paediatric
services.
36.
The concerns expressed by some market participants in relation to obstetrics and
gynaecology included:
(a) the loss of choice of hospital for patients (including delivery methods);
(b) the likelihood that the bargaining power of doctors would be lessened post-
acquisition;
(c) the view that the quality of care may be at risk for some specialties post-
acquisition (including the lack of immediate access to Intensive Care (ICU)
facilities for those specialties relocated to the Wesley, since the ICU will
remain at the Mater campus); and
(d) transitional issues, such as the current lack of capacity at the Wesley to
accommodate a merged obstetrics/gynaecology workload as planned
(including the timing of the construction of new consulting suites adjacent to
the Wesley).
37.
However, the majority of market participants expect that a better standard and
quality of services will be available overall at the planned women’s and
children’s hospital at the Wesley site post-acquisition. Further, although some
market participants had concerns about the proposed acquisition, generally they
were not opposed to it, with many noting the counterfactual when making their
submissions.
38.
The ACCC is of the view that, given the counterfactual and the views of most
specialists that the standard of care will not be affected and may improve in some
areas, any lessening of competition in obstetrics and gynaecology as a result of


Mater Misericordiae Hospital - proposed acquisition of The Wesley Hospital
-8-
the proposed acquisition is unlikely to constitute a substantial lessening of
competition pursuant to section 50 of the Act.
39.
In the other areas of overlap, market inquiries indicated that either the extent of
competition between the Mater and the Wesley in these overlap specialties was
limited (in some instances, due to the differences in the facilities and equipment
available at the Mater and the Wesley). In some other specialties, the procedures
can be provided in a day surgery, which means that in these specialties, day
surgeries are likely to act as a constraint on the merged hospital. Therefore, it
was considered unlikely that the proposed acquisition would lead to a substantial
lessening of competition in respect of any of these other specialties where the
hospitals overlap.
Potential competition between the Mater and the Wesley in non-overlap specialties
40.
Market inquiries indicated that there is limited, if any, potential competition in
most services where the Wesley is not currently active, since there is no credible
threat of the Wesley expanding into these specialties in competition with the
Mater, either because of prohibitive costs or because of the need to have an on-
site ICU facility in conjunction with certain specialties. Market participants noted
that given the Wesley’s recent decline, the prospect of it expanding into new
specialties appears unlikely.
41.
Based on available information, the ACCC formed the view that the proposed
acquisition is unlikely to result in any significant elimination of potential future
competition between the Mater and the Wesley in those non-overlap specialties
where the parties do not currently compete.
Extent of competition between the Mater and the Wesley for doctors, which may lead
to better outcomes for patients
42.
Competition between hospitals for doctors may have benefits not only for doctors
but also for patients, if it leads to hospitals offering, for example, better
equipment, training or improved ancillary services.
43.
Market inquiries indicated that both the Mater and the Wesley, due to the
consistent shortage of specialists in regional areas, actively seek appropriately
qualified specialists. Responses from market participants supported the view that
given this shortage of specialists in regional areas, the merged hospital would still
have an incentive to attract and retain doctors in Townsville, and may even be in
a better position to do so, post-acquisition.
44.
Market inquiries also indicated that the Mater offers attractive conditions to some
doctors in certain specialities (such as well appointed consulting rooms at
relatively low rents and/or the provision of ancillary services) to encourage them
to establish their practices at the Mater. However, competition for doctors
between the Mater and Wesley is more limited than in some other regional areas
due to the differences between the two hospitals. Specifically, the Wesley is far
smaller than the Mater and offers fewer specialties, and has been experiencing
falling occupancy levels as well as declining support from doctors in a number of


Mater Misericordiae Hospital - proposed acquisition of The Wesley Hospital
-9-
specialties in recent years. Almost every doctor with visiting rights at the Wesley
also has visiting rights at the Mater.
45.
In respect of potentially better outcomes for patients as a result of competition
between hospitals for doctors, initial market inquiries generally supported the
view that doctors are primarily responsible for maintaining the level of services at
the Mater and the Wesley, including having a large say over a number of services
which are not provided by doctors.
46.
A small number of market participants indicated that as part of this process, some
doctors have tried to play the Mater and the Wesley off against one another in the
past, by approaching both hospitals requesting new equipment/machinery. Some
market participants expressed concern that the incentive for the Mater and the
Wesley to fulfil such requests would be lessened post-acquisition.
47.
Market inquiries indicated that the Mater and the Wesley are both receptive to
purchasing new equipment (including the Mater even in those non-overlap
services where the Wesley does not currently compete) and that competition
between these two hospitals is generally not a critical factor in determining
whether new equipment is provided. The majority of market participants were of
the view that the proposed acquisition would not lessen the quality of services
offered to private patients in the Townsville and surrounding region, and that it
may even lead to benefits such as higher quality services offered by the merged
hospital.
48.
The ACCC considers that, given the limited extent of competition between the
Mater and the Wesley for doctors, and lack of evidence to suggest that doctors
playing the hospitals off one another is a significant factor in the provision of new
equipment or the level of patient care in these two hospitals, it is unlikely that
these factors would lead to the proposed acquisition resulting in a substantial
lessening of competition.
Impact of the proposed acquisition on prices to uninsured patients
49.
Some market participants expressed concern about the possibility that prices to
uninsured patients may increase post-acquisition. This issue appeared to be most
relevant to specialties such as elective plastic surgery, where the majority of
procedures are not covered by insurance.
50.
The ACCC understands that, generally speaking, the Mater and the Wesley’s
charges to uninsured patients are at least the same as, and in some cases higher
than, the highest fee that has been contracted with a health fund. This appears to
be consistent with the pricing practices of other private hospital operators and day
surgeries.
51.
However, market inquiries supported the view that the cost of services is not the
only factor that uninsured patients take into consideration when deciding whether
to be admitted to the Mater or the Wesley. Past experiences and other factors
such as the complexity of the procedure (in which case doctors refer patients to
the Mater) also influence this decision.


Mater Misericordiae Hospital - proposed acquisition of The Wesley Hospital
-10-
52.
The ACCC considers that many uninsured patients are likely to consider the
public Townsville Hospital to be a realistic alternative to the private hospitals
(taking into account access and price), whereas insured patients are less likely to
consider using the public hospital. Uninsured patients may weigh up the option
of paying the full cost of an immediate private procedure against waiting for a
public procedure at low or zero cost. In contrast, an insured patient, whose
insurer will pay for the private procedure at a time of the patient’s choosing, is far
less likely to consider using the public system, since there is no significant cost
saving to them for doing so.
53.
Further, some specialists have operating lists at the Townsville Hospital so, in
some cases, would be able to offer their uninsured patients admission to the
public hospital as private patients. Although patients would still be required to
pay for the specialist’s services, they may face lower hospital fees compared to
being admitted to one of the private hospitals. One specialist indicated a
willingness to treat uninsured patients at the public hospital if cost was a
significant issue.
54.
Overall, taking into account the counterfactual, the ACCC considers that the
proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially lessen competition for the
provision of private hospital services, including services to uninsured patients.
Barriers to entry for private hospitals and day surgeries
55.
The ACCC considers that barriers to entry for a new private hospital are
relatively high and the establishment of a new private hospital in the Townsville
region is unlikely in the near future.
56.
Market inquiries did indicate, however, that barriers to entry for a new day
surgery facility are much lower, as demonstrated by recent entry. However, the
ACCC notes that day surgeries only provide a competitive constraint in relation
to certain specialties and are not sufficiently close substitutes across the range of
specialties to form part of the relevant market.
Availability of reproductive services (including IVF) post-acquisition
57.
Early in the ACCC’s investigation, concerns were expressed by market
participants in relation to the availability of reproductive services post-
acquisition, given that the acquirer is a Catholic organisation whose beliefs do not
permit certain procedures.
58.
Following extensive market inquiries, the ACCC was satisfied that reproductive
services, including IVF, would continue to be available at similar levels to
patients in Townsville and the surrounding region post-acquisition. The ACCC
understands that the Queensland Fertility Group, which currently offers IVF
services at the Wesley and some services at Townsville Day Surgery, is
proposing to transfer all its services to the Townsville Day Surgery with minimal,
if any, interruption to services. The Queensland Fertility Group will operate
separately from, and in competition with, Monash IVF, a competitor which
already operates at Townsville Day Surgery.


Mater Misericordiae Hospital - proposed acquisition of The Wesley Hospital
-11-
Elimination of tubal ligation in conjunction with a Caesarean delivery post-acquisition
59.
Tubal ligation performed in conjunction with a Caesarean delivery is uncommon
among private patients in Townsville – the ACCC’s inquiries revealed that only a
very low number of these procedures were performed at the Wesley in the past
two years. The discontinuation of this procedure post-acquisition, due to the
acquirer being a Catholic hospital, was an issue of concern for a small number of
private patients. However, the option to undergo these procedures separately will
continue to be available post-acquisition. On the basis of this information, and
the counterfactual, the ACCC does not consider the discontinuation of this
procedure at the Wesley post-acquisition constitutes a substantial lessening of
competition.
Conclusion
60.
On the basis of the above, in light of the counterfactual, the ACCC concluded that
the proposed acquisition of the Wesley Hospital by the Mater Misericordiae
Hospital is not likely to result in a substantial lessening of competition in any
relevant market in contravention of section 50 of the Act.
