ACCC WILL NOT OPPOSE AUSTRALIAN PAPER'S PROPOSED ACQUISITION 
OF EDWARDS DUNLOP OFFICE PRODUCTS  
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will not oppose Australian Paper's 
proposed acquisition of the Edwards Dunlop Office Products division (EDOP) of BJ Ball. 
The ACCC review focused on the supply of copy paper in Australia and included market 
inquiries with a range of suppliers of copy paper, customers and buying groups, and 
including current and some potential competitors of Australian Paper  
“Market participants expressed a range of views, including concerns from some that the 
removal of EDOP as a major distributor of copy paper in Australia would limit the options 
available to customers such as smaller stationery stores,” ACCC Chairman Rod Sims said. 
“However, despite the acquisition resulting in the removal of a close competitor, the majority 
of market participants considered that there were a number of potential alternative 
distributors of copy paper in Australia, and that importers of copy paper would be a strong 
constraint on Australian Paper,” Mr Sims said.  
The ACCC found copy paper from different manufacturers is very similar and that customers 
readily switch between manufacturers for supply. 
“Copy paper is a low margin commodity product business. More than half of Australia’s copy 
paper is currently imported into Australia. If Australian Paper attempted to increase prices 
after the acquisition, importers/distributors would face few significant barriers to entry or 
expansion,” Mr Sims said.  
Australian Paper has also committed not to include any exclusivity restriction in any 
proposed contract with EDOP’s largest copy paper customer group, which should further 
facilitate competition. 
Please see the ACCC’s public register for more information. 
Background 
Australian Paper (also known as Australian Office) is the only Australian manufacturer of 
copy paper, including the Reflex brand. BJ Ball, through EDOP, imports and supplies copy 
paper to customers throughout Australia.    
 
Media enquiries  
ACCC Media  
1300 138 917  
MR 192/16 
21 October 2016 
 
