 
Page 1 of 15 
 
 
 
 
Statement of Issues 
20 December 2012 
 Telstra Corporation Limited - proposed acquisition of 
Adam Internet Pty Ltd 
Introduction 
1. Outlined below is the Statement of Issues released by the Australian Competition 
and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on the proposed acquisition of Adam 
Internet Pty Ltd (Adam) by Telstra Corporation Limited (Telstra) (proposed 
acquisition). 
2. A Statement of Issues published by the ACCC is not a final decision about a 
proposed acquisition, but provides the ACCC’s preliminary views, drawing 
attention to particular issues of varying degrees of competition concern, as well 
as identifying the lines of further inquiry that the ACCC wishes to undertake. 
3. In line with the ACCC’s Merger Review Process Guidelines (available at 
www.accc.gov.au/processguidelines ) the ACCC has established a secondary 
timeline for further consideration of the issues. The ACCC anticipates completing 
further market inquiries by 24 January 2013 and anticipates making a final 
decision on 7 February 2013. However, the anticipated timeline can change in 
line with the Merger Review Process Guidelines. To keep abreast of possible 
changes in relation to timing and to find relevant documents, market participants 
should visit the Mergers Register on the ACCC's website at 
www.accc.gov.au/mergersregister. 
4. A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties (including 
customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to ascertain and 
consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also intended to provide 
the merger parties and other interested parties with the basis for making further 
submissions should they consider it necessary. 
Background 
5. On 24 October 2012 Telstra provided its submission to the ACCC seeking 
informal clearance of the proposed acquisition. The ACCC commenced a review 
on 25 October 2012 and issued a market inquiries letter on 26 October 2012. 
The parties 
Telstra Corporation Limited 
6. Telstra is the major wholesale and retail supplier of telecommunications services 
in Australia and retains a dominant market position in many telecommunications 


 
Page 2 of 15 
markets. Telstra also owns the near ubiquitous copper network which its 
competitors need to access and interconnect with in order to compete against it.  
7. Specifically, in relation to the proposed acquisition, Telstra provides the following 
retail services: 
a. retail fixed broadband services to residential customers, including through its 
BigPond brand; 
b. subscription television services (FOXTEL); 
c. mobile broadband services;  
d. fixed and mobile voice services; and 
e. business and corporate data services. 
8. Telstra provides retail fixed line telecommunications services through a 
combination of its near ubiquitous copper network, its hybrid fibre coaxial cable 
(HFC) network (located in Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Gold Coast 
and Perth) and the National Broadband Network (NBN). Telstra also owns 50 per 
cent of the subscription television provider, FOXTEL. 
9. Telstra provides a number of wholesale services to other carriers and carriage 
service providers (access seekers) over its copper network, including services 
that are regulated by the ACCC under Part XIC of the Competition and Consumer 
Act 2010 (Cth) (the Act).  
Adam Internet Pty Ltd 
10. Adam is a privately owned telecommunications services provider. It provides 
services to residential, government and business customers primarily in South 
Australia and also in the Northern Territory. Adam provides the following retail 
services: 
a. fixed broadband services to residential customers; 
b. mobile voice and broadband services (using the Optus network); 
c. voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services; 
d. subscription television services such as Fetch TV; and 
e. business and corporate data services. 
11. Adam owns digital subscriber line access multiplexers (DSLAMs) in South 
Australia that it uses in combination with a number of wholesale services 
acquired from Telstra and other wholesale service providers to provide retail fixed 
broadband and VoIP services. Adam also provides retail broadband services 
over its WiMAX network and has commenced providing services over the NBN. 
Other industry participants 
iiNet 
12. iiNet is a national provider of telecommunications services including fixed and 
mobile broadband and voice, subscription television and web hosting services.  
iiNet provides these services through the iiNet, Westnet, Netspace, TransACT 
and Internode brands.   
13. Purchased by iiNet in 2011, the Internode brand provided iiNet with a significantly 
increased infrastructure and customer presence in South Australia.   


 
Page 3 of 15 
Optus 
14. Owned by the Singtel Group, Optus is a national provider of telecommunications 
services including fixed and mobile broadband and voice, subscription television, 
hosting and wholesale transmission services.    
TPG 
15. TPG is a national provider of telecommunications services including fixed and 
mobile broadband and voice, subscription television and web hosting services.  
Through subsidiaries Pipe Networks and Trusted Cloud, TPG also provides 
wholesale transmission and corporate hosting services.    
Dodo 
16. Dodo is a national provider of telecommunications services including fixed and 
mobile broadband and voice services. Dodo also provides electricity and 
insurance services.   
The transaction 
17. Telstra proposes to acquire all of the issued shares in Adam Holdings Internet 
Pty Ltd, which owns all of the issued shares in Adam. The proposed acquisition 
was publicly announced on 24 October 2012 and is subject to ACCC approval. 
18. Telstra submits that its commercial rationale for the proposed acquisition is to 
operate an alternative low cost operating model which will be made available to 
customers nationally and which offers opportunities for growth, particularly 
among budget conscious consumers. 
Market inquiries 
19. On 26 October 2012 the ACCC commenced market inquiries regarding the 
proposed acquisition. A range of interested parties provided responses, including 
competitors, customers and suppliers. 
With/without test  
20. Section 50 of the Act prohibits mergers or acquisitions that would have the effect 
or be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
In assessing a proposed acquisition pursuant to section 50 of the Act, the ACCC 
considers the effects of the acquisition by comparing the likely future competitive 
environment post-acquisition if the acquisition proceeds (the “with” position) to 
the likely future competitive environment if the acquisition does not proceed (the 
“without” position) to determine whether the proposed acquisition is likely to 
substantially lessen competition in any relevant market. 
21. For the purpose of this Statement of Issues, the ACCC considers that it is most 
appropriate to proceed on the basis that in the absence of the proposed 
acquisition, the status quo – that is, Adam continuing to conduct its independent 
telecommunications business as described in paragraphs 10 and 11 above - 
would continue. The ACCC has not received any information which would 
suggest that, absent the proposed acquisition, it is likely that Adam would either 
leave the market or be acquired by a different entity. 


 
Page 4 of 15 
22. The ACCC also notes that the future competitive environment is likely to be 
influenced by the operation of the measures set out in the Structural Separation 
Undertaking and the Migration Plan that will apply to Telstra’s supply of fixed line 
access services to its wholesale customers for a designated period. An 
explanation of these measures and their impact on competition in the future 
competitive environment ‘with’ the proposed acquisition, and in the future 
competitive environment ‘without’ the proposed acquisition is discussed in 
paragraphs 28-35 below. 
Industry background 
Regulatory framework 
23. The provision of telecommunications services in Australia is regulated by, among 
other measures, Parts XIB and XIC of the Act. 
24. Part XIB contains industry specific prohibitions against anti-competitive conduct 
in the telecommunications industry, which are based on the general prohibitions 
in Part IV of the Act. 
25. Part XIC establishes an industry specific regime for regulated access to carriage 
services and was introduced to make provision for an access regime to promote 
the long-term interests of end-users of telecommunications services. This 
framework governs the terms and conditions on which Telstra, as the owner of 
the network infrastructure, must provide access seekers with services that have 
been declared under Part XIC of the Act (declared services). 
26. Under this framework, the ACCC regulates Telstra’s provision of declared 
services to its wholesale customers (i.e. as access seekers), including by setting 
price and non-price terms relating to the supply of the services. 
The National Broadband Network 
27. On 7 April 2009 the Government announced that it intended to establish the 
National Broadband Network Corporation Ltd (NBN Co) to build and operate a 
wholesale only, open access national broadband network. The Government’s 
objective is for NBN Co to connect 93 per cent of Australian premises with fibre to 
the premises technology with remaining premises being serviced by a 
combination of fixed wireless and satellite technologies. 
Structural reform 
28. The Government has implemented broader reform to the structure of the 
telecommunications industry to assist in the transition to the NBN. As a part of 
this reform, the Telecommunications Legislation Amendment (Competition and 
Consumer Safeguards) Act (CACS Act) was passed in November 2010, which 
introduced a framework to address Telstra’s level of vertical integration. 
29. The Government has previously stated that Telstra’s high level of integration has 
hindered the development of effective competition in the sector.1 The reforms 
brought about by the CACS Act were intended to address competition concerns 
caused by Telstra’s vertical integration which were not adequately remedied by 
the existing accounting2 and operational separation regimes. 
30. Under the framework introduced by the CACS Act, Telstra could elect to either 
submit a voluntary structural separation undertaking or be subject to mandatory 
functional and horizontal separation. 
                                                 
 
1  
Explanatory Memorandum to the Telecommunications (Competition and Consumer Safeguards) 
Bill 2010, p.1 
2  
The accounting separation measures require revenue and cost information for wholesale and retail 
services to be reported to the ACCC.  


 
Page 5 of 15 
31. Telstra elected to submit a structural separation undertaking and draft migration 
plan, which were subject to the approval of the ACCC. A structural separation 
undertaking (SSU) and final Migration Plan were accepted by the ACCC and 
came into force on 6 and 7 March 2012, respectively. 
32. The SSU essentially provides (with some exceptions) that at all times after the 
designated date Telstra will no longer provide retail voice and broadband 
services using a network that it controls, primarily its copper and HFC networks. 
The designated day is currently 1 July 2018, but may be extended by the 
Minister3. The Migration Plan provides assurances regarding the way in which 
Telstra will disconnect services from its copper and HFC networks. 
33. Telstra has also entered into commercial agreements with NBN Co (the 
Definitive Agreements) that govern, among other things, the terms on which 
Telstra will disconnect its fixed line customers from its networks and provide 
services and access to key infrastructure to NBN Co. Under these arrangements, 
Telstra will progressively disconnect services from its fixed line networks as the 
NBN is rolled out. 
34. Given this progressive implementation of the structural reform, the SSU also 
specifies a range of measures that will apply to Telstra’s supply of fixed line 
access services to its wholesale customers during the period up until the 
designated date (Interim Equivalence and Transparency Measures). These 
measures are intended to promote equivalence and transparency in Telstra’s 
supply of these services to wholesale customers and its retail businesses. 
35. The structural arrangements of Telstra and the measures that will apply to the 
disconnection of services during the transition period to the NBN will be an 
important determinant of the nature and scope of competition which will exist in 
Australia’s telecommunications markets for at least the next 8 to10 years while 
the NBN is rolled out. 
Fixed broadband services 
36. In Australia, fixed broadband services are provided to residential and business 
customers using a range of technologies, including ADSL services (provided over 
Telstra’s copper network), cable services (provided predominately over Telstra 
and Optus’ HFC networks) and fibre services (provided over the NBN and other 
fibre networks). ADSL broadband services are currently the dominant technology 
for the provision of fixed internet connections in Australia. 
37. As an alternative to fixed broadband services, broadband can also be provided 
using fixed wireless services (including WiMAX), mobile wireless and satellite 
services.  
38. Providers of retail ADSL broadband services can supply these services using two 
broad methods: 
 
Purchasing a wholesale ADSL service from an infrastructure owner (e.g. 
Telstra) and on-selling this service to its retail customers. Retail broadband 
providers refer to this approach as ‘off-net’ supply. Telstra, as the owner of 
the copper access network, is the largest provider of wholesale ADSL 
services. In February 2012, the wholesale ADSL service was declared by the 
ACCC under Part XIC. 
 
Installing DSLAM infrastructure in Telstra’s exchange buildings and 
purchasing either an unconditioned local loop service or line sharing service 
from Telstra. Retail broadband providers refer to this approach as ‘on-net’ 
supply.  
                                                 
 
3  
Section 577A (10) Telecommunications Act 1997 (Cth). 


 
Page 6 of 15 
Fixed voice services  
39. Fixed voice services have traditionally comprised the supply of access (a line) 
and usage (call services) to provide local, national long distance and international 
calls generally over the copper network. 
40. Increasingly VoIP technologies are allowing the provision of fixed voice services 
over packet switched data networks (e.g. internet). As a result of the regulatory 
reforms discussed above, fixed voice services will eventually be predominately 
supplied using the NBN, rather than the copper network. 
Transmission services 
41. Transmission capacity broadly refers to links (or ‘backhaul’) which are used to 
connect service providers’ core networks with points of service delivery (such as 
exchanges). The domestic transmission capacity service (DTCS) is a declared 
service. Transmission capacity is an important input into the ability of service 
providers to provide downstream retail and wholesale telecommunications 
services. 
42. Service providers either acquire wholesale transmission services from a third 
party network owner or utilise their own transmission network. 
Data centre services  
43. Data centre services encompass the provision of data storage and data 
management services from a secure physical facility that is specifically designed 
to contain computing and telecommunications equipment. The services that may 
be offered using a data centre include: 
 
co-location: the customer leases space from the provider and installs and 
maintains their own IT equipment in the facility either for the self supply of 
services or the supply of managed ICT services to third parties; and/or 
 
managed ICT: the provider offers a package of services to the customer, 
often including the hosting of data and transportation of the data to the centre, 
utilising the equipment owned by the provider which is located in the data 
centre.  
Market definition  
44. On the basis of market inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the 
following product markets are likely to be relevant in assessing the proposed 
acquisition: 
 
the supply of retail fixed broadband services;  
 
the supply of retail fixed voice services; 
 
the supply of data centre services;  
 
the supply of wholesale transmission services; and 
 
(potentially) the supply of bundled telecommunications services. 


 
Page 7 of 15 
Retail fixed broadband services  
Product dimension 
45. Consistent with previous ACCC decisions, whether broadband services are 
provided via HFC, copper or fibre technologies is unlikely to be a material factor 
in the ACCC’s assessment of the proposed acquisition.4 From a functional or 
end-use perspective, the services supplied over copper, HFC and optic fibre 
technologies all support similar downstream applications.5   
46. Therefore the ACCC considers that, for the purpose of this analysis, the relevant 
retail product market includes services provided over different fixed broadband 
technology, including copper as well as HFC and optic fibre based services 
(including the NBN). In the context of the proposed acquisition, the ACCC 
considers it unnecessary to reach a conclusive view regarding whether other 
technologies, such as fixed wireless and WiMAX form part of the same market. 
Geographic dimension 
47. The ACCC has considered the appropriate geographic dimension of the market 
for the supply of fixed retail broadband services and, in particular, whether for the 
purposes of this review it is appropriate to consider the competitive effects in the 
context of a national or South Australian market.   
48. While it is common for providers of retail fixed broadband services with national 
brands to maintain nationally advertised pricing policies for those brands, 
information received during market inquiries suggests there is some degree of 
localised competition in South Australia. Local competition is present both 
through the advertised pricing and terms offered by brands based in, or focused 
on, South Australia, such as Adam and the iiNet brand Internode, and through 
the pricing responses of national suppliers to local competition. 
49. Market inquiries indicate that suppliers will target promotions and marketing 
campaigns in specific geographic areas in response to events such as 
developments in local competitive dynamics and infrastructure investment. 
Examples of local competition include Internode’s marketing of discounted fixed 
broadband offers targeted at South Australian residents, in response to the 
announcement of the proposed acquisition.  
50. The extent of local competition also reflects the geographic limitations of the 
infrastructure put in place by certain suppliers. While Telstra clearly has 
infrastructure across Australia, the DSLAM infrastructure installed and used by 
Adam is limited to South Australian local exchanges.  
51. In relation to national suppliers of fixed broadband services the ACCC 
understands these suppliers can respond to the localised nature of the 
competitive threat presented by local brands by offering discounts, price matches 
or other advantageous terms to individual customers who notify them that they 
would otherwise ‘churn’ (switch) to a competitor.   
52. Market definition is a tool to identify and define the boundaries of competitive 
conduct between the merger parties. Accordingly, the ACCC proposes to 
consider the proposed acquisition in the context of a South Australian market for 
retail fixed broadband services. 
                                                 
 
4  
ACCC, Telstra’s local carriage service and wholesale line rental exemption applications, Final 
Decision and Class Exemption, August 2008, page 48.  
5  
See ACCAN, NBN: Guide for Consumers – the Basics: The internet and broadband, April 2011, 
p4.  


 
Page 8 of 15 
53. In relation to the issue of concern discussed below at paragraphs 65-74, the 
ACCC considers that the likely substantial lessening of competition in the supply 
of retail fixed broadband services would arise irrespective of whether the 
proposed acquisition is assessed on the basis of a national market or state based 
markets.  
54. Retail fixed voice services 
Product dimension 
55. Retail fixed voice services broadly refer to the provision of a call or telephony 
service that enables the end customer to make local, long distance and 
international voice calls. Some market participants indicated that VoIP 
technology is increasingly seen as a substitute for standard telephone 
services provided over the copper network.  
56. The ACCC considers it unnecessary to reach a conclusive view regarding 
whether fixed voice services supplied using VoIP are substitutable for those 
provided over the copper network as even if VoIP services are included within the 
same market, the increase in Telstra’s market share as a result of the proposed 
acquisition would be minimal.  
Geographic dimension 
57. The market for the supply of retail fixed voice services demonstrates similar 
characteristics to the market for the supply of retail fixed broadband services and 
the ACCC considers that a similar approach should be taken to the geographic 
dimension of this market. The ACCC also notes that in relation to the issue of 
concern discussed below at paragraphs 65-74, the likely substantial lessening of 
competition in the supply of retail fixed voice services would also arise 
irrespective of whether the proposed acquisition is assessed on the basis of a 
national market or state based markets.   
Other markets 
58. The ACCC has also considered the impact of the proposed acquisition on the 
following markets.  
Data centre services 
59. Market inquiries indicate that there may be a market for the provision of data 
centre services. The ACCC understands that data centre services broadly 
encompass the storage of data and/or hosting of IT equipment (e.g. servers) in a 
secure facility. Access to data centre services is considered by market 
participants who do not own their own facilities to be a key input in the supply of 
telecommunications and IT services and products, including managed ICT or 
hosting services.   
60. The ACCC received mixed information from market participants on the 
appropriate geographic dimension for the supply of data centre services. Some 
industry participants consider that interstate data centres would be substitutable 
for a local data centre while others were of the view that local data centres were 
important in order to compete for certain managed ICT or hosting services 
contracts. 
61. However, market inquiries indicate that post acquisition there would remain a 
number of alternative data centres available in South Australia, including so-
called ‘carrier neutral’ data centres with excess capacity and, accordingly, the 
ACCC considers it unnecessary to reach a conclusive view on the geographic 
market definition regarding the supply of data centre services.  


 
Page 9 of 15 
Wholesale transmission services 
62. Market inquiries revealed mixed views on the geographic scope of the market for 
the supply of wholesale transmission services. However, the ACCC did not 
consider it necessary to reach a view on the appropriate geographic dimension of 
the relevant market. Market inquiries indicate the size of Adam’s purchases of 
wholesale services are relatively small and even on a narrow market restricted to 
South Australia, the proposed acquisition is unlikely to result in a substantial 
lessening of competition in the supply of wholesale transmission services. 
Bundled supply of telecommunications services including subscription television 
services 
63. Concerns were raised by industry participants that post acquisition, Telstra would 
be able to utilise Adam to reduce competition in the supply of bundled 
telecommunications and subscription television services.  
64. The ACCC does not consider it necessary to reach a view on whether there is a 
separate market for the supply of bundled telecommunications services 
encompassing subscription television content as the proposed acquisition would 
not significantly impact Telstra’s ability and incentive to offer such bundled 
services.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its proposed definition of 
the relevant markets. In particular, market participants may wish to comment on the 
geographic dimension of the market for retail fixed broadband services, including:   
(i) the extent to which national retail fixed broadband service providers offer tailored 
pricing and plans or special offers in South Australia; and  
(ii) any examples of South Australian based or focused retail fixed broadband 
service providers, such as Adam, offering products, plans or promotions that are 
not replicated elsewhere in Australia.  
Statement of issues 
65. For the purposes of this Statement of Issues, the issues in this matter are divided 
into three categories, 'issues of concern', 'issues that may raise concerns' and 
'issues unlikely to pose concerns'. 
Issues of concern 
The proposed acquisition would provide Telstra with the ability and incentive 
to foreclose competition  
66. The ACCC has extensively noted the longstanding competition issues that have 
arisen from Telstra’s ownership of the copper network and its participation in 
downstream retail markets.6 Telstra’s control over the copper network, combined 
with its market position, creates an incentive and the ability for it to favour its own 
retail business in the provision of access to this important infrastructure and 
thereby lessen competition in the related downstream retail markets, to the 
detriment of consumers.7  
67. The structural reform to be implemented by the SSU and Migration Plan is 
expected to address these concerns. However, the Interim Equivalence and 
                                                 
 
6  
ACCC, Submission to the Department of Broadband, Communications and the Digital Economy 
“National Broadband Network: Regulatory Reform for 21st Century Broadband”, June 2009, pp.18 
– 39. 
7  
Explanatory Memorandum to the Telecommunications Legislation Amendment (Competition 
and Consumer Issues) Bill 2005, p 13 


 
Page 10 of 15 
Transparency Measures in the SSU and elements of the Migration Plan would 
not apply in an appropriate or effective way to Telstra’s operation of Adam post 
acquisition. 
68. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that post acquisition, Telstra would have the 
ability and incentive to utilise its market power to favour Adam over its wholesale 
customers in the provision of access to its network infrastructure. The ACCC is 
concerned that this is likely to reduce the ability of alternative retail fixed voice 
and broadband service providers to constrain Telstra’s market power at the retail 
level, significantly foreclosing competition in the markets for the supply of retail 
fixed voice services and retail fixed broadband services.  
69. The ACCC’s concerns with the impact of the proposed acquisition, in the 
absence of an adequate remedy reflect concerns raised in market inquiries. 
Market participants submitted that the proposed acquisition would allow Telstra to 
supply services to Adam on terms and conditions that are not equivalent to the 
terms and conditions upon which Telstra supplies its wholesale customers and 
this could provide Adam (and, as a consequence, Telstra) with advantages which 
would likely result in a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of retail 
fixed voice services and retail fixed broadband services.  
70. The Interim Equivalence and Transparency Measures in the SSU would not 
effectively constrain Telstra’s ability to engage in a foreclosure strategy post 
acquisition. In particular, the ACCC is concerned that, post acquisition, Telstra 
may have the ability and incentive to engage in discriminatory behaviour, 
including but not limited to the following: 
a. Telstra would be able to charge Adam lower prices for key upstream inputs 
than it charges its wholesale customers.  
b. Adam (or its employees) may be able to access important information or be 
informed by Telstra about Telstra’s network issues or operations (including 
product development) that may not be available to wholesale customers.  
c. Telstra would be able to supply Adam with services that are not technically or 
operationally equivalent to those supplied to wholesale customers. For 
example, Telstra could supply Adam with services of higher quality, with 
additional functionality or features and not supply an equivalent service to its 
wholesale customers.  
d. Adam (or its employees) may be able to access confidential information about 
Telstra’s wholesale customers. 
e. Telstra would be able to favour Adam when processing orders from Adam 
and/or utilise different systems to that which it uses for wholesale customers.  
f. Telstra would be able to offer its employees incentives to favour Adam over 
its wholesale customers.  
71. The ACCC is concerned that, should Telstra engage in such conduct this is likely 
to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in the markets for retail 
fixed voice services and retail fixed broadband services.  
72. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that post acquisition, Telstra’s ability to engage in 
this conduct is unlikely to be effectively addressed through existing regulatory 
measures that apply to Telstra’s supply of fixed line access services.  
73. The ACCC is also concerned that post acquisition, the reporting requirements in 
the SSU (and the Migration Plan) which enable the ACCC to measure Telstra’s 
compliance with its ‘equivalence’ obligations would no longer provide an 
appropriate and effective level of transparency regarding Telstra’s compliance 
with its Interim Equivalence and Transparency Measures. 


 
Page 11 of 15 
74. The ACCC notes that, as a result of the limited application of the Interim 
Equivalence and Transparency Measures in the SSU, post acquisition Telstra 
would have the incentive and the ability to divert customers, and/or assets, from 
its existing retail business to Adam in order to maximise the impact of any such 
foreclosure strategy. Telstra may also be able to transfer particular wholesale or 
network functions to Adam and thereby circumvent the relevant obligations in the 
Interim Equivalence and Transparency Measures that apply to the performance 
of those functions. 
75. The ACCC notes that the preliminary competition concerns it has identified in 
paragraph 65 to 73 arise regardless of whether the proposed acquisition is 
considered on the basis of a national market or state based markets. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on whether the proposed 
acquisition is likely to lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the markets for 
the supply of retail fixed voice and broadband services due to Telstra’s enhanced 
vertical integration. In particular, the ACCC is seeking further information in relation 
to: 
(i)  the potential conduct which Telstra could engage in post acquisition, which may 
enable Telstra to advantage Adam over its other wholesale customers and/or 
potentially circumvent the application of the existing Interim Equivalence and 
Transparency Measures; and 
(ii)  the likely effect that such conduct may have on competition in the markets for the 
supply of retail fixed voice and broadband services. 
Issues that may raise concerns 
Horizontal aggregation in the provision of retail fixed broadband services in 
South Australia 
76. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the removal of Adam as an independent 
competitive constraint on Telstra may enable Telstra to increase prices and/or 
reduce the quality or offering of its retail fixed broadband services in South 
Australia.   
77. Telstra is the largest provider of retail fixed broadband services in South Australia 
in terms of subscriber numbers, while Adam is the third largest. The proposed 
acquisition would result in Telstra increasing its market share in South Australia 
from approximately 40-45 per cent to 55-60 per cent.  
78. While the ACCC notes that Telstra has made public statements that post 
acquisition the Adam brand will be positioned as a low cost alternative to Telstra, 
market inquiries indicate that Adam is currently positioned at a broadly similar 
level to Telstra, targeting customers that prioritise reliable broadband 
performance and high levels of locally based service in their purchasing 
decisions. These customers are typically not highly price sensitive.  
79. The ACCC understands that while Telstra bundles all of its retail fixed broadband 
services with a retail fixed voice service and Adam sells ‘naked’ fixed broadband 
services, market inquiries indicate that the effective prices of the Telstra and 
Adam ADSL2+ offers are comparable. Adam and Telstra also appear to promote 
similar levels of customer support with personalised support and Australian 
based call centres as important aspects of their fixed broadband offers. 
80. The ACCC is continuing to explore the degree to which Telstra and Adam are 
close competitors to each other, in terms of both price and service levels.   


 
Page 12 of 15 
81. Market inquiries indicate that lower priced suppliers such as Dodo and TPG 
would not be likely to provide a strong constraint on Telstra’s offerings in South 
Australia post acquisition. Dodo and TPG appear to offer consistently lower 
prices than both Telstra and Adam, with some market participants considering 
that these providers target a different segment of the market to Telstra and Adam 
with less focus on high levels of personalised customer support.  
82. The ACCC understands that other suppliers including iiNet (via its South 
Australian focused brand Internode) and Optus are positioned in a similar manner 
to Adam and Telstra in South Australia. The ACCC is considering the extent to 
which these other suppliers would continue to constrain Telstra post acquisition – 
although the ACCC notes that such suppliers would provide a limited constraint 
on Telstra post acquisition unless the vertical concerns identified in paragraphs 
65 to 74 above are resolved.   
83. The ACCC recognises that Telstra currently maintains an advertised national 
pricing policy. However, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition 
may remove the local competitive constraint provided by Adam in South Australia 
and Telstra’s likely response to this constraint. Post acquisition, customers may 
be less likely to switch, or to threaten to switch, away from Telstra and Telstra 
would therefore have less incentive to offer individualised pricing and terms in 
response to such threats.  
84. The ACCC is concerned that the proposed acquisition results in the loss of a 
local competitive response to Telstra and limits the choices available to 
customers.   
85. Market inquiries indicate that while Adam is a close competitor to Telstra in terms 
of its market positioning, Adam also offers differentiated product and service 
offerings specifically targeted to the South Australian market, providing a 
competitive response to national competitors and additional choice to customers 
in South Australia. 
86. These differentiated offers are often provided through specials or discounts linked 
to local events or organisations. The ACCC understands that Adam offers a 
diverse range of discounts and promotions to current and/or potential retail fixed 
broadband customers in South Australia. Market inquiries have also indicated 
that Adam’s provision of ‘naked’ ADSL services (which are not offered by Telstra) 
through its extensive network of DSLAM infrastructure in South Australia are a 
valued alternative to Telstra’s bundled offering. 
87. The ACCC considers the likelihood of new entry or significant expansion in the 
supply of retail fixed broadband services in South Australia to be low in the short 
to medium term. This market is maturing and the ACCC understands that while 
access seekers will continue to invest in DSLAMs where it is efficient to do so, 
DSLAM investment has been decreasing in previous years and the roll out of the 
NBN is likely to contribute to a continued reduction in investment in DSLAM 
infrastructure. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely competition 
effects of the proposed acquisition on the South Australian market for retail fixed 
broadband services. In particular, interested parties may wish to comment on: 
(i) the extent to which Adam is currently a close competitor to Telstra, and any 
competitive harm that is likely to arise from the removal of Adam as a competitor 
to Telstra in South Australia;  
(ii) the extent to which Adam currently offers unique product, price or service 
offerings that are not replicated by other retail fixed broadband service providers 
in South Australia;    


 
Page 13 of 15 
(iii) the level of competitive constraint provided by iiNet/Internode and Optus in retail 
fixed broadband services in South Australia and the extent to which these 
operators target similar customers to Telstra and Adam; 
(iv) the level of competitive constraint provided by TPG and Dodo in retail fixed 
broadband services in South Australia and the extent to which customers of 
Telstra and Adam would consider these providers to be strong alternatives; and 
(v) the likelihood of entry by retail fixed broadband service providers not present in 
South Australia and/or the likelihood of expansion from providers already present 
in South Australia, in particular through additional DSLAM investment.  
Issues unlikely to pose concerns 
88. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to pose competition 
concerns in respect of the following issues. However, the ACCC will accept 
submissions from industry participants on these issues and will further consider 
potential competition issues if it considers that such an assessment is warranted.  
Removal of a supplier of data centre services in South Australia 
89. Adam currently operates data centres in South Australia and concerns were 
raised that post acquisition Telstra may limit access by third parties to Adam’s 
data centre, potentially limiting competition in downstream markets for the supply 
of managed ICT and hosting services. The ACCC understands that access to 
data centres is considered an important requirement to be able to compete in this 
downstream market. 
90. The ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to substantially 
lessen competition in the supply of data centre services or related downstream 
markets, regardless of the market definition adopted, due to the availability of 
alternative data centres including in South Australia, such as Metronode, 
Hostworks, Internode and the recent entrant Tier5. Market inquiries indicate that 
most of these alternative suppliers are likely to have spare capacity.  
Removal of a contestable customer for the supply of wholesale transmission 
services in South Australia 
91. The ACCC has considered whether the proposed acquisition would remove a 
significant amount of contestable demand for the acquisition of wholesale 
transmission services in South Australia. Adam currently acquires wholesale 
transmission services from a range of suppliers and concerns have been raised 
that if Adam were to acquire these services from Telstra post acquisition, this 
would foreclose rival providers’ access to customers, potentially reducing the 
ability and incentive of suppliers of these services to invest and expand their 
wholesale transmission networks in the state. 
92. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the size of Adam’s purchases of wholesale 
transmission services is relatively small in relation to the total transmission 
services required nationally and also in South Australia and that were Adam to 
ultimately obtain these services from Telstra then this would be unlikely to 
deprive rival wholesale transmission service providers of a sufficient customer 
base even in the narrow market of South Australia.  
93. Accordingly, the ACCC considers that the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
result in a substantial lessening of competition in the provision of wholesale 
transmission services in South Australia.  


 
Page 14 of 15 
Bundling of subscription television with retail fixed broadband services in 
South Australia and nationally 
94. Some market participants have expressed concern that the proposed acquisition 
may have an adverse effect on competition in the market for retail fixed 
broadband services and any emerging market(s) for the provision of bundled 
services encompassing subscription television content. It has been submitted that 
this could occur if the FOXTEL content that Telstra acquires is supplied in 
conjunction with the Adam brand post acquisition.   
95. In particular, it has been claimed that if Telstra bundled FOXTEL with Adam’s 
fixed retail broadband services, it would provide Adam’s services with a 
significant competitive advantage over rival’s offerings, potentially jeopardising 
the commercial viability of competing providers and their ability to constrain 
Telstra post acquisition, particularly in the provision of retail fixed broadband 
services.   
96. The ACCC’s preliminary view is that any competitive advantage that Telstra 
obtains as a result of its pre-existing relationship with FOXTEL exists with and 
without the proposed acquisition. For this reason, the ACCC considers it unlikely 
the acquisition of Adam would enable Telstra to exercise any additional market 
power in the market for retail fixed broadband services and in any emerging 
market(s) for the provision of broadband services encompassing subscription 
television content that it would not have otherwise been able to exercise in the 
absence of the proposed acquisition. The ACCC also does not consider the 
proposed acquisition is likely to substantially increase Telstra’s incentives to 
exercise any such market power and engage in a foreclosure strategy.  
Horizontal aggregation in retail fixed voice services 
97. The overlap in the merger parties’ activities in retail fixed voice services is 
minimal. While Telstra is the leading supplier of retail fixed voice services in 
South Australia and also nationally, Adam does not currently provide traditional 
fixed line telephone services. Adam does however provide a relatively small 
number of VoIP services in South Australia. 
98. The ACCC considers that even if VoIP and traditional fixed line telephone 
services are included in the same market the proposed acquisition is unlikely to 
have an impact on competition for the provision of retail fixed voice services 
given the increase in Telstra’s market share would be minimal. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on the likely competitive 
effects of the proposed acquisition on the markets identified above.  
ACCC's future steps 
99. The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers market responses 
invited by this Statement of Issues.   
100. 
The ACCC now seeks submissions from market participants on each of the 
issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue that may be 
relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. 
101. Submissions are to be received by the ACCC no later than 24 January 2013. 
The ACCC will consider the submissions received from the market and the 
merger parties in light of the issues identified above and will, in conjunction with 
information and submissions already provided by the parties, come to a final view 
in light of the issues raised above. 


 
Page 15 of 15 
102. The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 7 February 2013. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Merger Review 
Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment for the purpose of 
explaining the ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
 
 
 
 
