 
 
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
tel: (02) 6243 1368 
mergers@accc.gov.au
www.accc.gov.au
Our ref: IM-72865 
 
 
13 May 2025 
 
 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Omnicom Group Inc.’s proposed acquisition of The 
Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (IPG) by Omnicom 
Group Inc. (Omnicom) (the proposed acquisition). 
Omnicom and IPG are both large global advertising, marketing and communications 
businesses, primarily supplying media buying services, and marketing and communications 
services. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
how closely Omnicom and IPG compete to supply media buying services to 
advertisers and the level of competition provided by rival providers of media buying 
services 
• 
how closely Omnicom and IPG compete to purchase advertising space from media 
outlets and how reliant media outlets are on such media buyers to sell advertising 
opportunities 
• 
how closely Omnicom and IPG compete to supply marketing and communication 
services to companies and the competition provided by rival providers of media and 
communication services, and  
• 
the likely impact of the proposed acquisition on prices, quality and/or service levels 
for media buying services and marketing and communication services in Australia. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B. 
 
A list of Omnicom and IPG’s Australian brands / subsidiaries is set out in Attachment C. 
This matter is public and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 


 
 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by 27 May 2025 via email to mergers@accc.gov.au with the 
title: Submission re: Omnicom / IPG. If you require more time to respond, please let us 
know. 
If you would like to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any questions about this 
letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au.  
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public 
Mergers Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC treats sensitive information it receives during a merger review as confidential, 
and will not publish your submission. We will not disclose submissions to third parties 
(except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with s155AAA of the 
Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, we will notify you in advance where possible so that you have an opportunity to 
be heard. Therefore please clearly indicate if any information you provide is confidential. 
Our Informal Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on 
confidentiality. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
 
Morag Bond 
General Manager  
Merger Investigations  
 
 


 
 
Attachment A 
The acquirer – Omnicom  
Omnicom is a large US-based advertising, marketing and communications holding 
company that operates in over 70 countries globally. In Australia, Omnicom provides 
a wide range of marketing and sales services, including media buying, marketing and 
communication services, customer relationship management and public relations. In 
Australia, Omnicom's brands include: DDB, TBWA, OMD Worldwide, PHD Media, 
Clemenger Group and Hearts & Science. 
The target – IPG 
IPG is a large US-based advertising, marketing and communications holding 
company that operates in over 100 countries globally. In Australia, IPG provides 
services including media buying, marketing and communication services, data and 
engagement solutions and public relations services. In Australia, IPG's brands 
include: IPG Mediabrands, Ansible, Matterkind, Universal McCann (UM), Kinesso, 
Reprise, Initiative, Mediahub, Acxiom, Identity Communications, IPG Rufus, Group 
Yellow, 303 MullenLowe and Octagon. 
Proposed acquisition 
On 8 December 2024, Omnicom and IPG entered into an Agreement and Plan of 
Merger. Under this agreement, a wholly owned subsidiary of Omnicom will be 
merged with, and into IPG. This subsidiary will cease to exist post-merger, and IPG 
will remain as a wholly owned subsidiary of Omnicom. 
The proposed acquisition was publicly announced on 9 December 2024. 
Areas of overlap 
In Australia, Omnicom and IPG overlap in media buying and marketing and 
communication services. 
Media Buying Services 
Media buying services involve the planning and purchasing of advertising 
opportunities across various media types, including television, radio, print, digital 
services and out-of-home sites (for example billboards), on behalf of clients 
(advertisers).  
Media buying services includes both: 
• 
the purchase of advertising opportunities from media outlets,  and  
• 
the on-selling of advertising opportunities to advertisers. Some media buying 
providers also on-sell advertising opportunities to smaller advertising and 
marketing agencies. 
Marketing and Communication Services 
Marketing and communications services comprise a range of services including 
advertising, consumer/product insight, consulting, public relations, customer 
relationship management, marketing, event management, brand identity and design, 
and specialist communications services.  
 
 


 
 
Attachment B 
Your business 
1. Please provide a brief description of your business or organisation.  
2. Please outline the reasons for your interest in the proposed acquisition, including 
any commercial relationship(s) with Omnicom and/or IPG. This will help us better 
understand your views.  
Areas of overlap 
3. How closely do Omnicom and IPG compete to provide services in Australia, 
taking into account factors such as: 
a. range of services (for example, specific media types, such as digital, tv, 
print) 
b. price, including specials, discounts and promotions 
c. quality 
d. customer type (for example, private or government customers), and  
e. reputation.  
4. Identify and describe the main competitors of Omnicom and IPG in the supply of: 
a. marketing and communication services, and 
b. media buying services. 
5. Explain whether smaller providers of media buying and/or marketing and 
communication services are able to meet the requirements of large advertisers.   
6. For advertisers purchasing marketing and communication services and/or media 
buying services, explain: 
a. how you choose a provider (for example, do you go out to tender or 
negotiate privately?) 
b. your considerations when selecting a provider 
c. any challenges faced in switching providers 
d. whether you use separate providers for marketing and communications 
services and media buying services, why or why not? 
e. whether you consider self-service platforms (eg purchasing advertising 
opportunities via Meta Ads, Google Ads and/or the Google Display 
Network) a realistic alternative to obtaining media buying services from an 
advertising agency, and  
f. the extent to which other intermediaries (eg ad tech intermediaries) offer 
services which are an effective alternative to the media buying services of 
the large advertising agencies. 
7. For media outlets selling advertising opportunities (for example, digital, tv, radio, 
out-of-home, print) to advertising, marketing and communications companies 
(such as IPG and Omnicom), explain: 
a. how advertising opportunities are sold (for example, quotes, direct deals, 
programmatic, or other industry specific sales processes), and 
b. the role of global advertising, marketing and communications companies 
in acquiring advertising opportunities on your service. How common and 
how easy is it for advertisers to purchase advertising space and time 
directly on your service.  


 
 
8. Describe any barriers to establishing and also expanding an advertising, 
marketing and communications business in Australia (for example investment 
costs, or existing long-term contracts).  
 
Other information or competition issues  
9. Outline any concerns you may have about the proposed acquisition, including any 
impact on innovation in advertising services (including the use of data driven 
services), the effective price (including the margin taken), service quality, or 
choice of providers of marketing and communication services or media buying 
services (or any impact on the acquisition of media opportunities).  
10. Provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the proposed acquisition.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Attachment C 
Omnicom Australian brands / subsidiaries 
 
Altcom Group Holdings Pty Limited 
Levo Digital Pty Ltd 
Altcom Real Estate Pty Ltd 
Lonsdale Share Assistance Pty Ltd 
Areteans Technology Solutions Australia 
Pty Ltd 
Mango Communications Pty Limited 
CGL Retail Services Pty Limited 
Marketforce Express Pty Ltd 
Channel 5 Communications Pty Ltd 
Marketforce Pty Ltd 
CHE Proximity Pty Ltd 
Media Holdings Australia Pty Ltd 
CHEP Tech Pty Ltd 
Omnet Australia Pty Ltd 
Clemenger Advertising Pty Ltd 
Omnicom Finance ANZ Pty Ltd 
Clemenger BBDO (Brisbane) Pty Ltd 
Omnicom Media Group Australia Pty Ltd 
Clemenger BBDO (Sydney) Pty Ltd 
Optimum Media Decisions (WA) Pty Ltd 
Clemenger BBDO Australia Pty Ltd 
Optimum Media Direction Pty Ltd 
Clemenger Field Marketing Pty Ltd 
PHD Networks Pty Ltd 
Clemenger Group Limited 
Porter Novelli Australia Pty Ltd 
Creative Activation Pty Ltd 
Portview Holdings Australia Pty Limited 
DDB Management Services Pty Limited 
Ptarmigan Media (Australia) PTY. Ltd 
DDB Melbourne Pty Limited 
Quantum Market Research (Aust) Pty Ltd 
DDB Sydney Pty. Ltd 
Rapp Pty Limited 
DDB Worldwide Pty. Ltd. 
Red Handed Creative Pty Ltd 
Diversified Marketing Services Pty Ltd 
Red Urban Pty Limited 
E Media Works Pty Ltd 
Resolution Media Network Pty Ltd 
EG Plus Pty Ltd 
TBWA Holdings (Australasia) Pty. Ltd. 
Finish Productions Pty Ltd 
TBWA Melbourne Pty. Ltd 
Flare Australia Pty Ltd 
TBWA Services Pty Ltd 
Foundation Works Pty Ltd 
TBWA Sydney Pty Ltd 
Team X Australia PTY LTD 
GRA Partners Pty Limited 
Traction Interactive Pty Limited 
GRACosway Pty Ltd 
Tracy Locke Pty Limited 
Hall & Partners Pty Ltd 
Traffik Marketing Pty Ltd 
Hearts and Science Pty Limited 
TRKKN Australia Pty Ltd 
Interbrand Australia Pty Ltd 
IPG Australian affiliates / subsidiaries 
 
2Print Pty Ltd (Affiliate) 
IPG Acxiom Australia Pty Ltd 
303 Design Management Pty Ltd (Affiliate) 
(dormant) 
IPG DXTRA (Australia) Pty Ltd 
303 Design Management Unit Trust 
(Affiliate) (dormant) 
IPG Rufus Pty Ltd 
303 MullenLowe Australia Pty Limited 
(Affiliate) 
Kinesso Pty Ltd 
ACN 077 757 307 Pty Ltd 
Lansky Enterprises Pty Ltd (Affiliate) 
Ansible Pty Ltd 
Mediabrands Australia Pty Ltd 
Baylodge Enterprises Pty Ltd (Affiliate) 
Mediahub Worldwide Asia Pacific Pty 
Limited 


 
 
Identity Communications Pty Ltd 
Mercury Mobility Pty Ltd 
Initiative Media Australia Pty Ltd 
Milkmoney Pty Ltd (inactive) 
Interpublic Australia Holdings Pty Ltd 
Orion Trading Australia Pty Ltd 
Interpublic Australia Traders Partnership 
FCB Six Australia Pty Ltd (inactive) 
 
 
 
