 
1 
 
Land of the Ngunnawal people
23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2601
GPO Box 3131
Canberra ACT 2601
Tel 02 6243 1111 
Fax 02 6243 1199
www.accc.gov.au
 
Our ref: 
IM-72674 
Contact email: 
mergers@accc.gov.au 
 
 
25 September 2024 
 
Dear Interested Party 
Request for submissions: Compass’s proposed acquisition of School Bytes 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is seeking your views on 
the proposed acquisition of School Bytes Learning Pty Ltd (School Bytes) by Compass 
Education Pty Ltd (Compass) (the Proposed Acquisition). 
Compass supplies school administration software nationally. School Bytes supplies school 
administration software in NSW. Further details are provided at Attachment A. 
The ACCC’s investigation is focused on the impact on competition. In particular, we are 
seeking your views on: 
• 
the extent of direct and potential competition between Compass and School Bytes and 
the likely impact of the Proposed Acquisition on prices and/or service quality for school 
administration software 
• 
the availability of alternative suppliers of school administration software in NSW and 
Victoria 
• 
the likelihood of new entry and expansion for the supply of school administration 
software, including the likelihood of providers expanding interstate. 
Further issues you may wish to address are set out in Attachment B.  
This matter is public, and you can forward this letter to anybody who may be interested. 
The legal test which the ACCC applies in considering the proposed acquisition is in section 
50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010. Section 50 prohibits acquisitions that are 
likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market. 
Please provide your response by no later than 9 October 2024 via email to 
mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission re: Compass/School Bytes.  
If you would like to arrange a time to discuss the matter with ACCC officers, or have any 
questions about this letter, please contact mergers@accc.gov.au with your contact details 
and an ACCC officer will be in touch. 
Updates regarding the ACCC’s investigation will be available on the ACCC’s Public Mergers 


 
 
Register at (ACCC mergers register). 
Confidentiality of submissions 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed acquisition. We will not 
disclose submissions to third parties (except our advisors/consultants) unless compelled by 
law (for example, under freedom of information legislation or during court proceedings) or in 
accordance with s155AAA of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.  Where the ACCC is 
required to disclose confidential information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where 
possible so that you may have an opportunity to be heard.  Therefore, if the information 
provided to the ACCC is of a confidential nature, please indicate as such. Our Informal 
Merger Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
Aggie Marek 
General Manager (A/g) 
Merger Investigations  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Attachment A 
The Proposed Acquisition 
Compass proposes to acquire School Bytes. Compass and School Bytes both supply school 
administration software to primary and secondary public schools. 
The supply of school administration software to public schools in New South Wales 
and Victoria  
New South Wales 
In November 2022, the NSW Department of Education (the NSW DoE) established the 
Administration Marketplace Panel for Schools (the Panel). If a supplier is selected by the 
NSW DoE to be on the Panel, it can supply school administration software to NSW public 
schools. 
Suppliers are approved for different categories of software depending on their offerings. 
These software categories are: 
• 
Student Administration and School Management and Operations (together, Student 
Information Software or SIS) 
• 
Timetabling 
• 
Parent Communications and Consent  
• 
Student Finance. 
Victoria 
Currently, public schools in Victoria can contract directly with a school administration 
software provider of their choosing without the Victorian Department of Education acting as 
an intermediary.  
Compass 
Compass is an Australian company that supplies school administration software in Australia, 
the UK and Ireland. In Australia, Compass supplies both public and independent schools 
and has customers in each State and Territory.  
In Victoria, Compass is the largest provider of school administration software based on the 
number of schools it services. 
In NSW, Compass is approved to supply on the Panel. It supplies SIS, Parent / Carer 
Communication and Consent, Timetabling, and Student Finance products. 
School Bytes  
School Bytes is a supplier of school administration software based in NSW. It only supplies 
public schools. School Bytes is approved to supply on the Panel. It supplies SIS, Parent 
Communications and Consent and Student Finance products.


 
4 
 
Attachment B 
1. Please describe your business or organisation and explain your interest in the Proposed 
Acquisition, including any commercial relationship(s) with Compass or School Bytes. 
Questions for customers 
2. Please outline which supplier/s you currently use for each category of school 
administration software. 
3. Please identify alternative suppliers you could use for each category of school 
administration software. Are you more likely to consider suppliers that offer multiple 
categories of school administration software?  
4. Describe your procurement process for school administration software, including your 
current pricing structure. For example, are you charged on a per school, student, or 
module basis? 
5. Discuss how closely Compass and School Bytes compete in the supply of school 
administration software in your state. Consider factors such as price, quality, and product 
characteristics in your response. 
6. Please outline the process of switching suppliers of school administration software. 
Consider the following questions in your response. 
• 
How regularly do you switch suppliers? 
• 
What factors influence your decision to switch? 
• 
Does your state education department allow for customers to switch suppliers? 
• 
How long would it take to transition from one school administration software product 
to another? 
Questions for competitors 
7. Identify which categories of school administration software products you provide. Please 
confirm which categories you provide in each of NSW and Victoria. 
8. Identify and describe your competitors for the supply of school administration software in 
each of NSW and Victoria. Please also provide market shares (by state) where possible, 
and the basis for such shares. 
9. If you supply to schools in NSW, please explain the Panel approval process, including 
any requirements your company or products must satisfy to be placed on the Panel. 
10. What are some of the key requirements of customers looking for school administration 
software? Please comment on any differences in the requirements of primary and high 
schools.  
Other questions 
11. Have there been any significant new entrants supplying school administration software in 
the past 3 years? Please comment on the likelihood of new entry, in particular any 
hurdles for new entrants or existing suppliers looking to expand.  
12. Please provide any additional information or comments that you consider relevant to the 
ACCC’s consideration of the Proposed Acquisition. 
