 
Page 1 of 19 
 
Statement of Issues 
 
18 February 2021 
Aon plc – proposed merger with  
Willis Towers Watson plc 
Purpose 
1. 
Aon plc (Aon) proposes to merge with Willis Towers Watson plc (WTW) (the 
parties) (the proposed merger).  
2. 
This Statement of Issues: 
 
gives the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) 
preliminary views on competition issues arising from the proposed merger,  
 
identifies areas of further inquiry, and 
 
invites interested parties to submit comments and information to assist the 
ACCC’s assessment of the issues. 
3. 
Statements of Issues do not refer to confidential information provided by the 
parties or other market participants and therefore may not fully articulate the 
ACCC’s preliminary position. 
Overview of ACCC’s preliminary views 
4. 
In considering the proposed merger, the ACCC applies the legal test set out in 
section 50 of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (the CCA). In general 
terms, section 50 prohibits acquisitions that would have the effect, or be likely 
to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition in any market. 
5. 
The ACCC divides its preliminary views into three categories, 'issues of 
concern', 'issues that may raise concerns' and ‘issues unlikely to raise 
concerns’. In this Statement of Issues there are three ‘issues of concern’.  


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 2 of 19 
Issues of concern 
6. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger will substantially lessen 
competition in the supply of: 
 
commercial insurance risk broking and advisory services in Australia, 
especially to large sized commercial insurance customers and those with 
more complex and/or high-value insurance premiums (together large) 
customers;  
 
reinsurance broking and advisory services in Australia, in particular for 
treaty reinsurance; 
 
employee benefits broking and consultancy services, including global 
coordination of such services.  
7. 
The ACCC’s investigation to date indicates that Aon and WTW are two of the 
three major brokers capable of providing commercial risk broking to large 
customers, reinsurance broking and employee benefits services in Australia 
(the other being Marsh1). Moreover, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that Aon, 
WTW and Marsh are significant competitive constraints upon each other and 
that this constraint would be significantly diminished if the proposed merger 
proceeds. The ACCC has preliminary concerns that the unilateral and 
coordinated effects arising from the proposed merger could lead to sustainable 
price increases and/or a decrease in service and/or quality.  
Making a submission 
8. 
The ACCC invites submissions from interested parties.  
9. 
Interested parties should provide submissions by 5pm on 12 March 2021. 
Responses may be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au with the title: Submission 
re: Aon/WTW - attention Tim Byrne/Nicholas Wellfare. If you would like to 
discuss the matter with ACCC staff or have any questions about this Statement 
of Issues, please contact Tim Byrne on 03 9658 6440 or Nicholas Wellfare on 
02 9230 3813.  
10. 
The ACCC anticipates making a final decision on 27 May 2021, however, this 
timeline can change. To keep up with possible timing changes and to find 
relevant documents, interested parties should visit the Mergers Register on the 
ACCC's website at www.accc.gov.au/publicregisters/mergers-registers/public-
informal-merger-reviews. 
Confidentiality of submissions 
11. 
The ACCC will not publish submissions regarding the proposed merger. The 
ACCC will not disclose submissions to third parties (except our 
advisors/consultants) unless compelled by law (for example, under freedom of 
information legislation or during court proceedings) or in accordance with 
s155AAA of the CCA. Where the ACCC is required to disclose confidential 
information, the ACCC will notify you in advance where possible so that you 
                                                 
 
1 Similar to Aon and WTW, Marsh is a leading global insurance broker and risk advisor, operating in more than 130 
countries. In Australia, Marsh operates a commercial risk business, reinsurance business (Guy Carpenter), and a 
health and welfare benefits business (Mercer Marsh Benefits). 


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 3 of 19 
may have an opportunity to be heard. Therefore, please identify any 
confidential information that is provided to the ACCC. Our Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines contain more information on confidentiality. 
About ACCC ‘Statements of Issues’ 
12. 
A Statement of Issues is not a final decision about a proposed merger. A 
Statement of Issues outlines the ACCC’s preliminary views and identifies 
further lines of inquiry. 
13. 
A Statement of Issues provides an opportunity for all interested parties 
(including customers, competitors, shareholders and other stakeholders) to 
ascertain and consider the primary issues identified by the ACCC. It is also 
intended to provide the merger parties and other interested parties with the 
basis for making further submissions should they consider it necessary. 
The parties 
14. 
Aon and WTW are both global professional services firms that provide, globally 
and in Australia, commercial insurance, reinsurance and employee benefits 
broking and advisory services.  
15. 
Aon employs approximately 50,000 employees and conducts operations in 
more than 120 countries. In Australia, Aon has 40 branches, including in all 
capital cities and numerous regional locations. 
16. 
WTW has more than 45,000 employees and services clients in over 140 
countries. It has five branches in Australia, located in Adelaide, Brisbane, 
Melbourne, Perth and Sydney. 
Industry background 
Commercial insurance risk broking and advisory services 
17. 
Businesses, governments, not-for-profit organisations and other corporate 
entities will typically seek commercial insurance to insure a range of different 
risks depending on their activities, assets and operations. These risks may be 
covered by property and casualty (or liability) insurance or specific insurance 
risk classes such as financial and professional (FinPro) including directors & 
officers (D&O) insurance, cyber, aviation, marine, and private equity, mergers 
and acquisitions (PEMA). In general, commercial insurance is considered to be 
business critical and represents a significant operating expense for customers.  
18. 
Insurance brokers act as intermediaries between the customer that is 
purchasing cover for its risk and the insurance company (or companies) that 
underwrite that risk. Insurance brokers require an Australian financial services 


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 4 of 19 
licence to operate in Australia and may ‘place’ the insurance with insurers in 
Australia and/or overseas.2 
19. 
Insurance brokers provide specialised advice on insurance options, arrange 
(broker) insurance, and provide ongoing claims management. Brokers are 
appointed by a customer, possibly following a tender process. Brokers are 
typically appointed around the time of insurance program renewal (typically 
every 3-4 years) for the period of the insurance coverage. Market inquiries 
suggest that the incumbent broker is often re-appointed. Brokers are 
remunerated through fees paid by customers and/or commission paid by 
insurers (which are ultimately reflected in the costs to customers).  
20. 
The nature and scope of brokerage and advisory services is often tailored to 
the specific needs of the customer, particularly to larger customers and those 
seeking to cover complex and/or high-value risk. For these customers, brokers 
may provide comprehensive risk management advice to understand and 
anticipate risk demands, develop new insurance products to meet customer 
needs, manage the program of insurance needs and negotiate bespoke 
insurance coverage, often with a consortia, rather than a single insurer, and 
provide crisis management advice and support. Insurance brokers use 
extensive manpower, data, analytics and modelling capabilities to supply these 
services. 
Reinsurance broking and advisory services 
21. 
Reinsurance broking involves providing broking and related advisory services 
to an insurer (called a ‘cedent’) to facilitate the transfer of some or all of its 
insured risk to a reinsurer or several reinsurers. The ability to reinsure risk is 
critical to insurers and their ability to continue to write new business (be it 
personal, commercial, life, etc. insurance). 
22. 
Reinsurance agreements generally take one of two basic forms facultative 
agreements or treaty agreements:  
 
facultative reinsurance: covers single risks or a defined package of risks 
(e.g. for an engineering plant) insured by the primary insurer.  
 
treaty reinsurance: covers all the primary insurer’s current and future 
policies within a certain risk class or classes. Insurers rely on access to 
treaty reinsurance to have the capacity to write (or insure) new business 
(as it will be covered under their reinsurance programme).   
23. 
Reinsurance brokers provide specialised risk advisory services, place 
insurance with individual reinsurers or consortia of reinsurers, negotiate terms 
of reinsurance coverage with reinsurers, and manage claims on behalf of 
insurers. The nature and scope of the reinsurance brokerage and advisory 
services is highly tailored to the individual customer.  
24. 
Facultative reinsurance brokers may also assist a commercial insurance broker 
with the placement of single risks or a defined package of risks for a 
commercial insurance customer, particularly if there may be limited insurer 
                                                 
 
2 Brokers typically use the services of wholesale commercial insurance brokers based in the global insurance centres 
(e.g. London, Singapore) to place insurance with overseas insurers. Wholesale commercial insurance brokers may be 
in-house or external.  


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 5 of 19 
capacity to underwrite the risk, for example, if the risks are large, complex or 
high-value.  
25. 
Reinsurance brokers are remunerated through commissions paid by the 
reinsurer and/or fees paid by insurers.  
Employee benefits broking and consultancy services 
26. 
Employee benefits broking and consultancy services relate to the design, 
implementation and ongoing administration of monetary (for example, 
remuneration and superannuation) and non-monetary (for example, health 
insurance) employee benefits programs for companies to assist them to attract 
and retain employees. 
27. 
Providers of employee benefits broking and consulting services provide, 
among other associated services: 
 
specialised advice on all aspects of employee benefits, including 
superannuation and retirement benefits;3  
 
provide benchmarking, actuarial services, analytics and audit services; and 
 
arrange group life, income, health and other employee-related insurance 
(only licensed insurance brokers are able to place insurance), including 
negotiation of policy wording and claims management services.  
28. 
The nature and scope of the services that brokers offer is often tailored to the 
specific needs of the customer. 
29. 
Employee benefits broking and consulting services may be provided only in 
Australia or in Australia and other countries to multinational customers that 
require global coordination of these services. Global coordination of employee 
benefits broking and consulting services is important for companies with 
operations in multiple countries to ensure consistent benefits for employees 
across all locations.  
30. 
Providers of employee benefits broking and consulting services are 
remunerated through fees paid by clients (particularly for the consulting 
services) and/or commissions received from insurers. 
Issue of concern: Supply of commercial insurance risk 
broking and advisory services 
Relevant market 
Possible segmentation by customer size, complexity and/or insurance premium 
 
31. 
Based on the investigation to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that large 
sized customers and those with more complex and/or high-value insurance 
premiums (together large customers) have fewer available commercial 
                                                 
 
3 Superannuation and retirement benefits services includes for example, retirement plan and strategy design; 
benchmarking retirement benefit plans; review of retirement plan strategy and performance; and advice to employers 
on employees’ retirement readiness..  


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 6 of 19 
insurance broking options. These types of customers often have an extensive 
portfolio of risks (across different risk classes), high value assets, a 
multinational presence, and/or need to place risk into offshore insurance 
markets.  
32. 
These types of customers have generally indicated to the ACCC that they 
require a broker with global scope as well as a strong Australian presence. 
This includes: 
 
broad expertise, including data and analytical capabilities across the 
spectrum of risks or potential risks  
 
the license to place insurance in all the countries where the customer has 
operations, and  
 
the ability to access international insurance markets and pools or 
consortium of insurers and place large and/or complex risk. This includes 
the ability to negotiate policy wording with the insurer/consortium, and 
handle potential future claims negotiations with the insurer/consortium.  
33. 
The ACCC understands that these customers deeply value their ongoing 
relationship with their broker, and view strong service capabilities and the 
ability of the broker to complete the procurement of insurance (including 
access to overseas insurer capacity) as more important than price when 
selecting a broker. These customers regard the depth and breadth of the 
broker’s institutional relationships with insurers as critical, both to the 
successful placement of insurance and handling of claims in a prompt and 
efficient manner. Submissions to the ACCC indicate that, to service the needs 
of large customers, these relationships are strongest for Aon, Marsh and WTW. 
34. 
Responses to the ACCC’s inquiries also indicated that the majority of brokers 
typically segment their customers based on size. Different brokers have 
different criteria to categorise customers by size depending on the size, 
expertise and business strategy of the broker. Aon and WTW identify their 
corporate and/or multinational customers, based on a size, complexity or risk 
value metric. They both also have business units dedicated to servicing 
multinational customers.   
35. 
The ACCC is still considering whether and, if so, how to define large 
commercial insurance customers (i.e. large sized customers and those with 
more complex and/or high-value insurance premiums), noting that the industry 
does not precisely define the term. While there are no “bright lines” to segment 
the market, based on inquiries to date, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that 
these large customers are likely to have: 
 
insurance premium in excess of at least $500,000, and/or 
 
annual revenue in excess of $150 million, and/or  
 
an ASX150 listing.  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on this issue.  


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 7 of 19 
Possible segmentation by risk category or industry speciality  
 
36. 
The ACCC understands that there are certain insurance risk categories or 
industry specialities that require additional broker specialisation. Specialist risk 
categories or industry specialities could include aviation, cyber, FinPro 
(including D&O), construction, energy/power and PEMA. Customers have 
submitted that most speciality risk categories are not substitutable. For 
example, a customer requiring cyber insurance cannot acquire aviation 
insurance as a substitute.   
37. 
The ACCC’s investigation has indicated that a broker is often required to have 
specialist in-house expertise, data and analytics capabilities to provide 
specialty risk or industry insurance broking and advisory services and may 
internally organise such expertise into specialist units to service customers of 
all sizes. The ACCC also understands that for a broker to compete effectively, 
the ability to access overseas insurance markets is important and for certain 
risk categories or industry specialities, essential, as it is not possible to place 
the risk domestically.   
38. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the effects identified in respect of large 
customers are most keenly felt by customers seeking broking and advisory 
services in PEMA, FinPro, aviation, cyber, marine, construction and education 
risk categories/industry specialities, in that these customers have fewer 
available broking options. The ACCC is considering whether there are further 
risk categories or industry specialities which may have similar competitive 
dynamics.  
39. 
In light of the above, the ACCC is also considering whether it may also be 
necessary to identify certain risk classes or industry specialities to properly 
consider the competitive effects of the proposed merger. 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
our approach to the relevant market/s for commercial insurance broking and advisory 
services. In particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
whether the market should be segmented by large customers (i.e. large sized 
customers and those with more complex and/or high-value insurance premiums), 
including the extent to which the insurance and insurance broking requirements of 
large customers is different to that of other customers.  
 
whether the market should be segmented by risk category and/or industry 
speciality.  
 
how ‘large’ customers of commercial risk insurance broking and advisory services 
should be identified or defined.   
 
the extent to which brokers require specific knowledge, data and analytics, and 
experience to compete effectively in supplying broking and advisory services to 
large customers or specific risk categories or industry specialities. 


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 8 of 19 
Competitors and market concentration 
40. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that Aon, WTW and Marsh are the only 
brokers able to meet the requirements of large commercial insurance 
customers.  
41. 
The ACCC’s investigation indicates that smaller international brokers such as 
Arthur J. Gallagher (Gallagher) and Lockton, and the domestic broker 
networks of AUB and Steadfast4, while competitive in respect of small and 
medium sized enterprises (SME), are not able to meet the insurance broking 
and advisory requirements of large customers, and do not compete closely with 
Aon, WTW and Marsh for large customers. 
42. 
In particular: 
 
Data and analytics: Aon, WTW and Marsh have extensive proprietary 
databases accumulated over a long period of time and sophisticated 
analytics and modelling capabilities. Significant expenditure and time is 
required to build and maintain this capability. Other brokers do not have 
comparable data and analytical capabilities to the leading three brokers.  
 
Global scope: Aon, WTW and Marsh are the only brokers that have 
significant global reach, each operating in more than 120 countries. The 
smaller international brokers do not operate in as many jurisdictions as the 
three large brokers. Large customers indicated that the broker alliance 
model5 was not substitutable for the one-stop-shop offering of Aon, WTW 
and Marsh.  
 
Holistic offering: Aon, WTW and Marsh have significantly greater scope to 
provide services across all risk categories. 
 
Wholesale insurance broking capabilities: The ACCC’s investigation 
indicates that having in-house, compared to third party, wholesale 
insurance broking capabilities makes it significantly easier for local 
Australian brokers to place risk with overseas insurers. The ACCC 
understands that Aon, Marsh and WTW have the most extensive in-house 
wholesale broking teams, capable of servicing their extensive global 
networks.  
43. 
The ACCC also understands that there is a practice by certain major brokers to 
align insurers or insurance capacity to them, including by way of broker 
analytics platforms, access to broker proprietary databases and consultancy-
style arrangements. The ACCC’s investigation also indicates that the volume of 
commercial risk insurance brokered by Aon, Marsh and WTW gives them 
increased leverage with insurers.  
44. 
The ACCC understands that these practices may result in preferential access 
to insurance capacity. This has the potential to limit the insurance coverage 
                                                 
 
4 AUB and Steadfast are both networks of independent commercial risk brokers in Australia and both strongly focused 
on SME and personal customers. For example, only 3% of Steadfast customers (commercial and personal) have a 
premium spend of more than $250,000). Both AUB and Steadfast also have some reinsurance broking capabilities. 
5 Some smaller brokers may be members of a broker alliance to facilitate the placement of insurance in countries the 
broker is not otherwise licensed to operate. 


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 9 of 19 
and pricing that smaller brokers are able to obtain for their customers. The 
ACCC also understands that the increased leverage with insurers may be also 
used to pressure insurers not to participate in renewal of that insurance when 
the broker mandate has moved to a competing broker.  
45. 
The ACCC understands that Aon, WTW and Marsh are the only three brokers 
operating in Australia that have a material facultative6 broking presence in 
Australia. The ACCC’s investigation indicates that brokers with the ability to 
place facultative insurance in-house have cost advantages over brokers that do 
not have such in-house capabilities.  
46. 
The ACCC also understands that in-house capacity can allow these brokers to 
access more insurance capacity and place more risk. Further, insurance 
brokers that do not have facultative reinsurance capabilities would, if facultative 
reinsurance was required to place the customer’s risk, need to use a 
competing broker (for example, Aon or WTW). It has been suggested to the 
ACCC that this may provide the competing broker with access to the primary 
broker’s commercially sensitive information. If this is the case, it may distort the 
dynamics of competition.  
47. 
The parties have submitted that large customers use multiple insurance 
brokers and not necessarily one broker across all required insurance lines. The 
ACCC understands this is relatively uncommon; not least because it can give 
rise to inefficiencies and operational challenges and may result in worse 
outcomes for the customer. Further, Aon, WTW and Marsh are the strongest 
brokers across the range of risk categories due to their resources and 
experience. Consequently, even if a single line or risk category of insurance is 
brokered by a smaller broker, this is unlikely to make smaller brokers a material 
constraint on the three large brokers.   
48. 
On this basis, the ACCC’s preliminary view in the context of the ACCC’s 
continued review of the proposed merger is that only Aon, WTW and Marsh are 
capable of meeting the insurance broking and advisory requirements of large 
customers, and that they exercise significant competitive constraint upon each 
other. Smaller brokers are not capable of servicing large customers to the 
same extent as Aon, WTW and Marsh and do not represent a material 
competitive constraint on the three large brokers.  
Barriers to entry and expansion 
49. 
As discussed above, to compete effectively for large customers, brokers 
require sophisticated data, analytics and modelling capabilities, global reach 
and a strong Australian presence, and the ability to provide services across all 
risk categories.  
50. 
The parties have submitted that insurance data and analytics and modelling 
capabilities are widely available from a variety of third party providers. 
However, the ACCC’s investigation has indicated that such third party data is 
not as comprehensive or valuable as the data held by the three major brokers 
and it would likely take a significant amount of time and expenditure for new 
                                                 
 
6 Facultative reinsurance covers single risks or a defined package of risks (e.g. for an engineering plant) insured by the 
primary insurer. 


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 10 of 19 
entrants or smaller brokers to develop these capabilities to the extent 
necessary to compete effectively with the three large brokers.  
51. 
Further, as noted above, market feedback indicates that the reputation of the 
three large brokers is a significant barrier to entry or expansion in insurance 
broking. Insurance represents a significant cost and can itself be a potential 
risk to businesses and in particular large customers. The three large brokers 
are viewed as more experienced and reliable by large customers, and this 
makes it less likely that a large customer would elect to move their business to 
a new entrant or smaller broker, even if a smaller broker could develop the 
requisite capabilities.   
52. 
The parties submit that brokers can easily enter or expand commercial 
insurance broking operations by hiring experienced brokers who come with 
expertise and strong client relationships. The parties submit that numerous 
broking firms in Australia have been strategically poaching experienced 
brokers in order to expand. However, other market participants have submitted 
that simply hiring brokers, even a team of brokers, is not sufficient to make a 
smaller broker a competitive constraint on the three major brokers in supplying 
services to large customers.  
53. 
Further, the ACCC understands that customer relationships, particularly for 
large customers, are institutionalised within the broker firm. In addition, the 
ACCC understands brokers are prohibited by the terms of their employment 
contracts to poach clients for a period following their move. The ACCC’s 
investigation also indicates that smaller brokers also remain at a disadvantage 
relative to the three major brokers in relation to data, analytics and modelling 
capabilities, global reach (including wholesale insurance broking capabilities) 
and reputation.  
54. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view in the context of our continued review of the 
proposed merger is that these barriers to entry and expansion mean that timely 
entry/expansion on a scale sufficient to constrain the merged entity is unlikely. 
Alternatives to brokers, and customer bargaining power  
55. 
The ACCC has considered whether there are alternatives to using a broker 
(direct placement, use of captives) that will constrain the merged entity post-
merger.  
56. 
The ACCC’s investigation indicates that direct placement is not a viable option, 
particularly for large customers because: 
 
customers rely on brokers for a wide range of services, including providing 
strategic advice (including knowledge of trends and capacity in insurance 
markets), placing insurance, negotiating with insurers, and managing 
claims. Customers did not consider it feasible to undertake this range of 
services in house and, considered that if they tried, this would result in 
them being worse off than if they had used a broker; 
 
many insurers do not have the capabilities to deal with customers directly 
nor permit customers to place insurance with them directly;  
 
large, complex or high-value risk is often placed with a consortium of 
insurers (which may also include reinsurers); customers consistently and 


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 11 of 19 
strongly told us it would not be possible to build a consortium, negotiate 
policy wording, or handle claims management without a broker.  
57. 
Submissions from market participants to the ACCC consistently indicated that, 
in light of all the services provided by brokers, bypassing brokers and dealing 
directly with insurers is cost-prohibitive and not a realistic option. This is 
particularly true for large customers given the scale and/or complexity of their 
risk requirements. Market participants told us that if they were to try to place 
insurance directly with an insurer, it would only be possible for specific, very 
small lines of insurance (i.e. only at the margins), and that this does not 
materially offset the need to engage a broker. 
58. 
Further, the ACCC understands that for many large customers, the use of a 
broker is seen to provide reassurance that the risks of the company are 
adequately covered, and senior management requires independent, specialist 
advice from a broker in order to sign off on insurance premium spend.  
59. 
The ACCC’s investigation indicates that the use of captives7 is uncommon in 
Australia. Market participants considered captives to be costly, typically only 
used for large uninsurable risks, and not a realistic option for most customers. 
Further, the ACCC understands that if customers do use captives, it is only for 
some of their risk, and would not materially offset the need for traditional 
insurance placed through brokers. In addition, an insurance broker is typically 
required to advise on the use, establishment and management of the captive.  
60. 
Consequently, the ACCC’s preliminary view in the context of the ACCC’s 
continued review of the proposed merger is that large customers lack 
alternatives to the three major brokers and the bargaining power of large 
customers is low, given their inability to bypass brokers and (as discussed 
above) smaller brokers are not capable of servicing large customers to the 
same extent as Aon, WTW and Marsh. 
Coordinated effects  
61. 
As set out in the ACCC’s Merger Guidelines the ACCC considers that a 
proposed merger may make coordinated conduct more likely, or sustainable if, 
for example, it reduces the number of firms among which to coordinate or 
strengthens the position of a firm which is likely to promote or support 
coordination: 
“…mergers can lessen competition through coordinated effects. Mergers have 
coordinated effects when they assist firms in the market in implicitly or explicitly 
coordinating their pricing, output or related commercial decisions. A merger may 
do so simply by reducing the number of firms among which to coordinate, by 
removing or weakening competitive constraints or by altering certain market 
conditions that make coordination more likely. Coordinated effects may occur in 
addition to unilateral effects so that the merged firm is able to achieve even 
higher prices than it would on its own. In some cases, coordinated effects, either 
                                                 
 
7 Captives, or a captive insurer, is an insurance company that is wholly owned and controlled by its insureds. Its 
primary purpose is to insure the risks of its owners, and its insureds benefits from the captive’s underwriting profits. 


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 12 of 19 
alone or in conjunction with unilateral effects, may amount to a substantial 
lessening of competition.”8  
62. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that, in Australia, Aon and WTW are two of 
only three brokers that can meet the insurance broking and advisory 
requirements of large customers. 
63. 
Further, the high barriers to entry and expansion means that any coordinated 
conduct is unlikely to be prevented by new entry or the threat of it.  
64. 
The ACCC is also of the preliminary view that the proposed merger could 
increase the similarities between Marsh and the merged entity in terms of size, 
structure and geographic footprint. This could align the incentives of the 
merged entity and Marsh and make it easier to engage in and sustain 
coordinated conduct.   
65. 
In addition, the ACCC understands that competition between brokers often 
occurs through tender processes and that brokers have knowledge and 
visibility of competitors’ pricing and strategies.9 In addition to the high market 
concentration, these factors increase transparency and could make the market 
vulnerable to coordination.  
66. 
Therefore, at this stage, the ACCC considers in the context of the ACCC’s 
continued review of the proposed merger that the proposed merger may make 
coordinated conduct more likely, or more sustainable, and as a result may be 
likely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of commercial risk 
broking and advisory services to large customers. 
Preliminary views on constraints on the merged entity  
67. 
The ACC’s preliminary view is that Aon, WTW and Marsh are the only brokers 
likely to be capable of meeting the insurance broking and advisory 
requirements of large customers, and face minimal other competitive 
constraints.  
68. 
The ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger will therefore remove a 
significant competitive constraint from the market by combining two of these 
suppliers, and may reduce choice for large customers seeking commercial risk 
broking and advisory services. This may result in increased prices (i.e. 
brokerage fees, and/or insurance costs) and/or a reduction in quality or service. 
69. 
The ACCC’s investigation has indicated that tender or contract renewal 
processes are likely to be less competitive after the proposed merger because 
of the lack of viable alternatives. In addition to brokerage cost increases, 
customers have raised concerns that service and quality of the offering will 
decline, including day-to-day servicing (including claims and crisis 
management). These concerns are potentially significant: the ACCC’s 
investigation has indicated that brokers are likely to compete more on quality of 
service than on brokerage price. 
                                                 
 
8 ACCC Merger Guidelines, November 2017, paragraph 6.1. 
9 In addition to specific concerns raised by market participants relating to the exchange of commercially sensitive 
information where a third party facultative reinsurance broker is required to assist with the placement of the commercial 
risk. 


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 13 of 19 
70. 
Further, due to the practice of the major brokers’ to align with insurers, and the 
leverage the merged entity and Marsh would have with insurers post-merger, 
market participants have expressed concerns that the proposed merger will 
result in preferential access to insurance capacity for the two remaining major 
brokers. This would make it more difficult for smaller brokers to compete as it 
will diminish the insurance that smaller brokers are able to obtain for their 
customers. Consequently, it will be more difficult for non-Aon or Marsh 
customers to access insurance capacity and/or they may receive worse terms 
for access (i.e. reduced coverage and/or higher prices).  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
supply of commercial insurance broking and advisory services. In particular market 
participants may wish to comment on the following:  
 
the extent to which Aon and WTW compete in the supply of insurance broking and 
advisory services, including to large customers and by risk class or industry 
speciality.  
 
the extent to which other brokers compete with and constrain Aon and WTW in the 
supply of insurance broking and advisory services to large customers, and why.  
 
the extent of barriers to entry and expansion for the supply of broking and advisory 
services to large customers, in particular the extent to which data, analytical and 
modelling capabilities, and having a global presence, create barriers to entry and 
expansion.   
 
the ability of customers to place insurance directly with insurers or use captives to 
bypass brokers.  
 
whether the proposed merger would increase the likelihood of coordinated conduct 
in the supply of commercial risk broking and advisory services, in particular to large 
customers.  
Issue of concern: supply of reinsurance broking and 
advisory services  
Relevant market 
71. 
The ACCC considers there is likely a distinct market for the supply of 
reinsurance broking and advisory services. The ACCC understands that 
insurers require reinsurance brokers to provide specialised risk advisory 
services and for the placement of risk10 with a reinsurer(s). The ACCC’s 
investigation indicates that insurers do not possess the expertise or resources 
to bypass reinsurance brokers because: 
                                                 
 
10 Market participants’ submissions are consistent that alternative capital (e.g. catastrophe bonds sold to hedge funds, 
pension funds and other market participants) is not viewed as a substitute for reinsurance in Australia. Further, the 
ACCC understands that if alternative capital were to be used, it could only be a complement to, but not substitute for, 
reinsurance, and that a reinsurance broker would still be required to devise the risk management strategy and facilitate 
access to the alternative capital. 


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 14 of 19 
 
brokers utilise extensive data, modelling and analytics capabilities to 
facilitate the placement of reinsurance and provide associated advisory 
services, which an insurer cannot replicate in-house; 
 
broker expertise is required to negotiate reinsurance programs, particularly 
if risk is being placed with a consortium of reinsurers; 
 
brokers provide associated ongoing services, including claims management 
and risk modelling.  
Possible segmentation between treaty and facultative reinsurance broking and 
advisory services 
 
72. 
Some market participants submit that brokers require different levels of 
expertise and data, analytics and modelling capabilities to place treaty 
compared to facultative reinsurance and provide associated advisory services. 
The ACCC understands that it is less complex to place and advise on 
facultative reinsurance than treaty reinsurance, and that treaty reinsurance 
typically involves larger spend and deeper relationship between the insurer and 
broker.  
73. 
The ACCC understands that there is limited substitutability between treaty and 
facultative reinsurance given the scope of risk transfer (single versus all current 
and future policies within a risk class). On the other hand, the ACCC also 
understands from submissions that insurers require and reinsurance brokers 
typically provide risk management advice across all or almost all of the insurers 
book of business to advise on the appropriate risk management (i.e. treaty or 
facultative) reinsurance program.  
74. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the relevant market for analysing the 
competitive effects of the proposed merger is the supply of reinsurance broking 
and advisory services in Australia, but the ACCC will consider whether specific 
issues arise in segments of this market 
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its preliminary views about 
the definition of the relevant market/s for reinsurance broking and advisory services. In 
particular market participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
the extent to which reinsurance brokers require different knowledge, data and 
analytics capabilities and experience to provide broking and advisory services for 
treaty and facultative reinsurance.  
Market concentration 
75. 
Market participants have consistently submitted that Aon, WTW and Guy 
Carpenter/Marsh (Guy Carpenter is the business division of Marsh which 
provides reinsurance broking and advisory services) are the only reinsurance 
brokers with the expertise, data, analytical, and modelling capabilities and 
global reach11 to meet the requirements of insurers in Australia. Other 
reinsurance brokers (either in Australia or overseas) were not viewed as 
adequate alternatives.  
                                                 
 
11 There are no Australian reinsurers. Australia-based reinsurance brokers must place risk for insurance customers 
with global reinsurers such as Munich Re and Swiss Re. 


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 15 of 19 
76. 
The ACCC’s investigation also indicates that, similar to large commercial 
insurance broking and advisory services customers, insurers value the quality 
and service offering, more highly than price. The ACCC understands that 
reinsurance brokers have a ‘trusted advisor’ position for an insurer, such that 
insurers are averse to using the same reinsurance broker as their major 
competitor.  
77. 
ACCC market inquiries also indicated that the relationships between 
reinsurance brokers and their insurer customers are entrenched and long-term, 
in particular for treaty reinsurance. Insurers value their relationship with the 
reinsurance broker, the institutional in-depth business knowledge acquired over 
time by the incumbent broker, local expertise coupled with the ability to access 
international reinsurance markets as well as the expertise and analytical 
capabilities of the broker.   
78. 
The ACCC’s investigation also indicates that the volume of reinsurance 
brokered by Aon, Guy Carpenter/Marsh and WTW gives them increased 
leverage with reinsurers to access capacity. This has the potential to reduce 
the reinsurance (both coverage and price) any potential competitor would be 
able to obtain for their customers. 
79. 
In light of the above, it appears likely that the proposed merger would remove a 
significant competitive constraint from the market, and would result in Guy 
Carpenter/Marsh being the only material competitive constraint on a combined 
Aon-WTW. Further, it appears that the scope for increasing prices and/or 
reducing quality or service is particularly high, as insurers appear likely to 
sustain an increase in price (in particular) but possibly also a decrease in 
service or quality, rather than switch.  
Barriers to entry and expansion  
80. 
The information before the ACCC indicates that there are relatively high 
barriers to new entry and to expansion by existing competitors for the supply of 
reinsurance broking and advisory services, in particular for treaty reinsurance.  
81. 
As discussed above, to compete effectively, reinsurance brokers require 
sophisticated data, analytics and modelling capabilities, strong expertise, the 
ability to effectively access reinsurance capacity and the ability to provide 
associated services on an ongoing basis.  
82. 
The information before the ACCC suggests that customer retention rates are 
very high, in particular for treaty reinsurance, and that insurers placing higher 
value on service or quality aspects of a reinsurance brokers’ offering, rather 
than price.  
83. 
The ACCC also understands that, given the importance of reinsurance to the 
insurer, insurers are reticent to switch to an alternative broker who does not 
have the established reputation of Aon, WTW or Guy Carpenter/Marsh. This 
makes it less likely that an insurer will elect to move their business (particularly 
treaty) to a new entrant or smaller reinsurance broker (especially if only in 
response to an increase in price).   
84. 
These barriers to entry and expansion mean that timely entry/expansion on a 
scale sufficient to constrain a combined Aon-WTW is unlikely, in particular for 
treaty reinsurance.  


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 16 of 19 
Coordinated effects  
85. 
At this stage, the ACCC considers that the proposed merger may also make 
coordinated conduct more likely, or more sustainable, in the supply of 
reinsurance broking and advisory services.  
86. 
The ACCC is of the preliminary view that the proposed merger could increase 
the similarities between Guy Carpenter/Marsh and the merged entity, closely 
aligning their incentives and making it easier to engage in and sustain 
coordinated conduct. This is particularly the case for treaty reinsurance, where 
customer loyalty is high and customers are unlikely to switch in relation to price 
increases alone. This concern is greater given the high barriers to entry and 
expansion which mean that the threat of new entry is unlikely to prevent any 
coordinated conduct. Further, the ACCC understands there is a high degree of 
transparency in the market through tender processes that increase visibility of 
competitor’s strategies and pricing.  
87. 
Therefore, at this stage, the ACCC considers that the proposed merger may 
make coordinated conduct more likely, or more sustainable, and as a result 
may be likely to substantially lessen competition in the supply of reinsurance 
broking and advisory services. 
Preliminary views on constraints on the merged entity  
88. 
At this stage, the ACCC’s investigation indicates that Aon, WTW and Guy 
Carpenter/Marsh impose competitive constraints on each other, but face 
minimal other competitive constraint. The proposed merger would remove a 
significant competitive constraint from the market by combing two of these 
suppliers. The removal of a competitive constraint could result in increased 
prices and/or a reduction in quality or service, including the ability to access 
sufficient reinsurance capacity and/or customers may receive worse terms for 
access (i.e. coverage and price).  
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to 
reinsurance broking and advisory services. In particular market participants may wish 
to comment on the following: 
 
the extent to which Aon and WTW compete in the supply of reinsurance broking 
and advisory services.  
 
the extent to which smaller brokers compete with and constrain Aon and WTW in 
the supply of reinsurance broking and advisory services for (i) treaty reinsurance 
and (ii) facultative insurance, and why.  
 
the extent of barriers to entry and expansion for the supply of broking and advisory 
services for (i) treaty reinsurance and (ii) facultative reinsurance.  
 
the ability of insurers to place insurance directly with reinsurers (and bypass 
brokers).  
 
whether the proposed merger would increase the likelihood of coordinated conduct 
in the supply of reinsurance broking and advisory services.  


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 17 of 19 
Issue of concern: supply of employee benefits broking and 
consultancy services  
Relevant market 
89. 
The ACCC’s inquiries to date suggest that many customers buy employee 
benefits products and services as a bundle. There are complementarities in 
demand and supply for the services associated with employee benefits broking 
and consulting services, including global coordination of such services to 
multinational companies. For example, the different aspects of an employee 
benefit package often take into account other aspects (e.g. an employee’s 
salary may be adjusted to take account of other remuneration, such as 
superannuation).  
90. 
The ACCC’s inquiries indicate that most firms that provide these services 
provide all or a large proportion of these services and advertise them as a 
holistic offering, to benefit from these complementarities.  
91. 
Also, there are likely to be complementarities in supply, or economies of scope, 
across the range of employee benefits services. These economies of scope 
are likely to arise from, among other things, the importance of data and 
analytics underpinning the employee benefits services, as well as the 
relationships and reputation of the brokers supplying these services.  
92. 
For these reasons, the ACCC’s preliminary view is that the appropriate relevant 
market for analysing the competitive effects of the proposed merger and the 
sphere of rivalry between the merger parties is employee benefits broking and 
consulting services (rather than distinguishing between different aspects of this 
service, as was suggested by the parties12).  
Market concentration  
93. 
Feedback from market participants indicates that Aon, WTW and Marsh 
(though its Mercer Marsh Benefits division) are the three major providers of 
employee benefits broking and consultancy services in Australia. A few smaller 
brokers, notably Gallagher and Lockton, also provide employee benefits 
broking and consulting services.  
94. 
However, the ACCC’s investigation to date indicates that Aon, WTW and 
Marsh have a significantly greater ability to provide these services, in particular 
if global or multinational coordination of services is required. The ACCC 
understands that companies value brokers with local expertise in each 
jurisdiction in which they operate. Aon, WTW and Marsh operate in more 
jurisdictions than other brokers, and are better able to coordinate employee 
benefits across countries and ensure the appropriate level of local expertise.  
95. 
The ACCC’s investigation also indicates that customers also value the data, 
analytics and modelling capabilities of the brokers, for example to accurately 
benchmark employee benefits programs against their competitors and across 
industries. Feedback provided to the ACCC indicates that Aon, WTW and 
                                                 
 
12 The parties suggested that the relevant markets should be defined as consulting services for (i) retirement benefits, 
(ii) health and welfare and (iii) human capital.  


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 18 of 19 
Marsh have significantly greater data, analytics and modelling capabilities than 
other brokers in relation to employee benefits services.   
Barriers to entry and expansion 
96. 
As outlined above, the ACCC’s investigation indicates that to compete 
effectively, employee benefits brokers require comprehensive data, analytics 
and modelling capabilities, as well as manpower, expertise, relationships with 
insurers and the ability to provide these services on an ongoing (often daily) 
basis (including for example, employee return to work support).  
97. 
The ACCC’s inquiries to date have also indicated that employee benefits 
broking and consulting services are typically provided and purchased as a 
bundle of services. As such, to be effective competitors, providers must offer 
the range of employee benefits broking and consulting services.  
98. 
In addition, the ACCC understands that establishing a strong local presence in 
Australia and other countries, in addition to global coordination capabilities, is 
necessary to offer employee benefits broking and consulting services to cross-
border customers.  
99. 
At this stage, the ACCC considers that these factors constitute significant 
barriers to entry and expansion into the supply of employee benefits services.  
Alternatives to brokers  
100. 
The ACCC’s investigation indicates that bypassing a broker is not a realistic 
alternative for employee benefits programs because brokers have experience 
designing and implementing programs, and expertise, data and analytical 
capabilities that cannot easily be replicated. For example, to be aware of the 
competitiveness of their employee benefits offering, companies need to utilise 
the consulting and benchmarking services offered by employee benefits 
broking and consulting providers and cannot easily (or legally) obtain this 
information by other means.  
101. 
Further, the ACCC understands that brokers are particularly important for 
companies that operate in multiple jurisdictions. Market participants have 
submitted that as brokers are well placed, and in certain cased viewed as 
essential, to assist with the design, coordination and management employee 
benefits programs across multiple jurisdictions 
102. 
The parties have submitted that large consultancy firms such as Ernst & 
Young, KPMG, PwC and Deloitte some certain employee benefits consulting 
services. However, the ACCC understands that these types of consultancy 
firms do not have the ability to broker insurance, and so cannot offer the full 
range of employee benefits services in the way the parties and other brokers 
do.  
Coordinated effects  
103. 
The ACCC’s preliminary view is that the proposed merger may make 
coordinated conduct more likely, or more sustainable, which may be likely to 
substantially lessen competition in the supply of employee benefits broking and 
consultancy services. The merger would increase similarities between the two 
remaining strongest competitors, and align their incentives, increasing 


Aon plc – proposed merger with Willis Towers Watson plc 
 
Page 19 of 19 
concerns around the potential for coordination. High barriers to entry also 
mean that the threat of new entry is unlikely to prevent any coordinated 
conduct.  
Preliminary views on constraints on the merged entity 
104. 
At this stage, the ACCC is concerned that the proposed merger is likely to 
result in the combination of two of the three major providers of employee 
benefits broking and consulting services in Australia, removing a significant 
competitive constraint from the market, especially for companies that require 
global coordination of these services. The removal of a competitive constraint 
could result in increased prices and/or a reduction in quality or service.   
The ACCC invites comments from market participants on its concerns in relation to the 
supply of employee benefits broking and consulting services. In particular market 
participants may wish to comment on the following: 
 
the extent to which employee benefits services are provided and purchased as a 
bundle of services, the importance of bundling services, and the services that are 
included.   
 
the extent to which Aon and WTW compete in the supply of employee benefits 
services, including in relation to the global coordination of these services.  
 
the extent to which other brokers compete with and constrain Aon and WTW in the 
supply of employee benefits services, including in relation to the global 
coordination of these services.  
 
for companies that operate in multiple countries, the importance of a broker being 
able to provide global coordination of employee benefits services.   
 
whether the proposed merger would increase the likelihood of coordinated conduct 
in the supply of employee benefits broking and consultancy services.  
ACCC's future steps 
105. 
As noted above, the ACCC invites submissions from market participants on 
each of the issues identified in this Statement of Issues and on any other issue 
that may be relevant to the ACCC's assessment of this matter. Submissions 
should be emailed to mergers@accc.gov.au by no later than 12 March 2021. 
106. 
The ACCC will finalise its view on this matter after it considers submissions 
invited by this Statement of Issues. 
107. 
The ACCC intends to publicly announce its final view by 27 May 2021. 
However the anticipated timeline may change in line with the Informal Merger 
Review Process Guidelines. A Public Competition Assessment explaining the 
ACCC's final view may be published following the ACCC's public 
announcement. 
